The Independent’s Matt Gatward looks back at  what has happened in the Premier League since it kicked off in August. He’s made ten points. 1. The playing field isn’t that level after all With the increased TV rights money pouring into the Premier League the pressure on the ‘smaller’ clubs to sell their better players to the ‘bigger’ clubs has eased to the extent that Dimi Payet, Saido Berahino, Jamie Vardy et al stayed put at West Ham, West Brom and Leicester respectively. Meanwhile, suddenly the likes of Palace could spend £27m on Christian Benteke. As a result it was assumed that the league would be even more competitive than it was last season when the Foxes won the title. However, with 10 games gone, the cream has risen to the top. Spurs are unbeaten and City, Liverpool and Arsenal have lost only once while the usual suspects populate the league’s nether regions. So much for a levelling of the playing field. 2. Tottenham are here to stay If anyone thought Tottenham’s title push last season was a flash in the pan they will surely have been disabused of that idea if they saw the way Mauricio Pochettino’s team took Manchester City apart in mid-October. True, they are on a mediocre run of form right now – drawing their last three games – but there is little doubt the team is heading in the right direction. They are three points off the top, are unbeaten and have the meanest defence in the Premier League - while juggling Champions League football. Harry Kane’s injury has robbed them of a goal threat with Vincent Janssen not looking up to the job but the England striker’s imminent return should make life rosier again. 3. Jose Mourinho is not the Messiah When the Special One signed on the dotted line at Manchester United it was widely predicted that the good times would roll once more at Old Tafford after three lean seasons under David Moyes and Louis Van Gaal. But Mourinho’s wonky halo at Chelsea last season is beginning to look more than just a temporary dislodging. The Portuguese seems disaffected, disappointed and dischuffed with his lot at United as the old aggro reappears and the team flounder for a sense of purpose despite the pricy summer shopping. 4. Alexis Sanchez can play up top Although Arsenal needed Olivier Giroud to come off the bench and rescue two points at Sunderland at the weekend the season so far has proved that Alexis Sanchez can play as a striker – and a very effective one at that. The Chilean has been tried up top by Arsene Wenger over previous seasons - but intermittently and with limited success. Now, given a run of games in the position, he has proved he is to the manor born as he has added fluency and variety to the Arsenal attack. His movement, coupled with the midfield running beyond opposition defences, makes the Gunners more unpredictable than when Giroud stands up top with his back to goal. 5. James Milner has been a secret left-back all his life Either by default or design James Milner has found himself playing at left-back this season for Liverpool and has done a mighty fine job at it too. Had he not retired from international football there would be a (minor) clamour for him to don the England shirt once more. As it is, the hitherto midfield workhorse has found his true calling and has been one of the surprises of the season as his side put together a credible push for the title. 6. Pep Guardiola is not the Messiah either He came to England with a bulging reputation and a bag full of trophies from La Liga and the Bundesliga and it was widely assumed (especially when he won his first 10 matches) that he would lead Manchester City to the league title at a canter. However, the last few weeks – prior to the demolition of West Brom at the weekend - have brought Pep Guardiola down a peg or two. He may well go on to add to the silver bounty come May but it will not be all on his terms as the defeat to Spurs and draws with Everton and Southampton proved. 7. Diego Costa is not a busted flush This time last year Diego Costa was coming to blows on a weekly basis with Jose Mourinho as the Portuguese’s reign at Chelsea went into meltdown. Costa was being accused of not putting the work in and the goals had dried up to the extent that he scored just four times in his first 21 games of last season. This term, under Antonio Conte, the Costa that led Chelsea to the league in 2014-15 is very much back in attendance. He has eight goals in 12 games and looks as dangerous as ever. 8. Yannick Bolasie might just be worth £25m after all When Everton stumped up the eye-watering figure of £25m for the Crystal Palace winger Yannick Bolasie during the summer, there was much spluttering going on from seasoned Selhurst Park goers. However, while the DR Conga player still has doubters to win over, his performances have shown signs of rich promise so far. His relationship with Romelu Lukaku is flourishing and with four assists and a goal so far the fee is not looking like the laughing matter it was in August. 9. West Ham would find it so tortuous at the London Stadium While moving to a new home always takes a period of settling in, no one could have predicted that West Ham’s move the London Stadium would be as traumatic as it has been. With a shiny new stadium to play with, largely at taxpayers’ expense, the move from Upton Park was supposed to herald a happy time for the Hammers. However, it has been hit and miss (far too much of the former as hooliganism has taken hold) as the club who pushed for Champions League football last season find themselves just three points above the relegation zone with two league wins from five home games. 10. Watford are still on the up When Quique Sanchez Flores was sacked by the Hornets at the end of last season, there was much head-scratching down Watford way. The newly-promoted side had, after all, comfortably avoided relegation under the Spanish coach when many assumed they would head back down – and they reached the FA Cup semi-final to boot. However, under Walter Mazzari the club are still going strong, sitting in 10 – above Manchester United - with 15 points. Of course, they could be in the top four under Flores, but we’ll never know that will we? The Independent