The 'Lip Sync Battle' star thinks she was "slightly cursed" by having a "great pregnancy" when expecting her and husband John Legend's daughter Luna, seven months, because she experienced a sudden dip in mood as her hormones began to change. And Chrissy thinks it is important for people to speak openly about postpartum depression. She said: "I think a lot of the mood stuff that happens afterwards isn't really talked about, whether it's postpartum depression or really just, for me, some days, I wouldn't know how to cope with work and juggle things and still have time for a husband life. Ok ok no A video posted by chrissy teigen (@chrissyteigen) on Oct 30, 2016 at 4:51pm PDT "And that was really tough for me, and I think just the mere act of losing those endorphins, I think I was slightly cursed by having such a great pregnancy and being so happy and having so much energy, that just the decline of all those endorphins, and all the prenatals and everything I was on and how healthy I was, naturally made my mood change. There were periods where you get super dark." Chrissy thinks mothers have unrealistic expectations about getting back into shape after giving birth because of women in the public eye, but the brunette beauty insists it is easier for famous people as they have so much help and support on hand. She told 'Today': "Anyone in the public eye, we have all the help we could ever need to be able to shed everything. "So I think people get this jaded sensation that everybody's losing it so quickly, but we just happen to be the ones who are out there. "We have nutritionists, we have dietitians, we have trainers, we have our own schedules, we have nannies. We have people who make it possible for us to get back into shape. But nobody should feel like that's normal, or like that's realistic." .@caseypattersontv and the team at #lipsyncbattle sent an entire scene 😂😂😂 I love you guys so much A photo posted by chrissy teigen (@chrissyteigen) on Oct 30, 2016 at 4:55pm PDT Chrissy has grown to expect criticism on social media whenever she posts photos of Luna on social media. She said: "I can see things coming a mile away. "I know that when I post something, if she's in a car seat, I've got to be ready for the million people telling me she's in the car seat wrong, even though she's in there correctly. "At this point, I know what they're going to say before they say it. If I'm holding her while I'm cooking, or if I'm holding her within 10 feet of a stove top, I've kind of just come to expect it."