 The IAB SA has announced that the final deadline for all submissions to the Bookmark Awards 2017 has been extended until midnight on 25 November. This is in response to numerous requests from the industry and a phenomenal interest, in particular in the new categories. IAB SA CEO Josephine Buys says, “We are so impressed by the detail and scope of the submissions this year. We are mindful that many marketers, publishers and agencies are putting in significant effort and resources to complete their entries, and want to give them as much time as possible.” The first step to preparing your entry is to ensure that you enter within the right category. If your work has achieved something that doesn’t seem to fit in previous awards, make sure you examine our new award categories and sub-categories, as they reflect emerging trends in the industry. The awards now recognise new sub categories in the Channels, Emerging and Digital Technologies, Publishing and some new Special Honours. The Channels category will now include Online Video Series and Innovative Use of Mobile Media. The Emerging and Digital Technologies category has introduced Chat, Messaging and Dark Social categories, while Publishing sub-categories include Publisher Apps, Online Photography, Online News Videos, Live Event Coverage and Streaming Services. New Special Honours have been added for best CTO, Best Contribution to Transformation in the Digital Industry and Pixel for Purpose, an award for socially-minded digital campaigns. More information and descriptions of the new categories are available on thebookmarks.co.za. Once you have read the rules, and checked the categories and fees, you can turn your attention to creating your entry. For more details on what makes the perfect entry, read here through entry tips directly from our jury chairs. When you are happy with your entry, you can submit it via our online form, along with any supporting material you may have. If you have any questions during this process, you are welcome to get in touch with the IAB SA at info@iabsa.net.  Enter now Let your hard work be counted in South Africa’s largest digital industry awards and gain world recognition. More information on the entry categories, rules and entry tips visit thebookmarks.co.za.  About the IAB South Africa The Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB) South Africa, is an independent, voluntary, non-profit association focused on growing and sustaining a vibrant and profitable digital industry in South Africa. The IAB South Africa represents the digital industry across all sectors including the media, the marketing community, government, and the public, and also acts as the channel through which international bodies can enter the South African digital market. The IAB South Africa currently represents over 200 members including online publishers, creative, media and digital agencies, brands, and educators, between them accounting for more than 41 million local unique browsers. The IAB South Africa strives to provide members with a platform through which they can engage, interact, and address digital issues of common interest, thereby stimulating learning and commerce within the South African digital space. To find out more about the IAB South Africa, visit its website, like its Facebook page and follow @iab_sa on Twitter. IOL, adapted from a press release