We’ve compiled a list of ten reasons why you should watch this spectacular movie NOW: 1. The special effects  Marvel films in general are heavy handed with regards to special effects. You would expect the quality for all the films to be the same. Yet, some of the other films special effects has been questionable at times. However, this time around it’s on the positive side. The most impressive effect is the Inception style reality altering magical spells. They look spectacular and draw you into the mystical world of the Sorcerer Supreme. 2. The use of humour Incorporating the right type of humour into any film alleviates tension. The Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU), in contrast to the dark and sober DC Extended Uiniverse (DCEU), has been able to balance highly dramatic moments with great comedic sequences.  Where Doctor Strange succeeds the most is with the use of pop culture references. READ: Mads Mikkesen talks Doctor Strange 3. Benedict plays a lovable jerk When the initial rumours of casting swirled around, everyone thought that Benedict would have been too obvious a choice. Sometimes the obvious choice is the right one, and now we have another lovable jerk in the MCU. Benedict is a different kind of jerk compared to Robert Downey Jr’s Tony Stark, and it really pays off for his overall character arc. 4. A hilarious post credit scene The last few Marvel’s have had very questionable post/mid credit scenes. However, make sure you stay for both the mid & post credit scenes. You might recognise a certain Asgardian popping in to team up with the good doctor in a later film. 5. Faithful comic book adaptation Taking what appears on a comic book and adapting it for either TV or film can be a daunting task. You have to appease die-hard fans boys/girls and make it palatable for the general movie going audience. Doctor Strange succeeds on both fronts. 6. Kickass fight choreography  The fight choreography in this film is phenomenal. Not only do you believe that these sorcerers can do real magic, but they are also kickass martial artists. MOVIE REVIEW: Dr Strange 7. Complex villains  The one huge issue with Marvel films of late is the lack of a complex, fully realised villains(excluding Loki). Let’s not forget how disappointing Ronan the Accuser, Ultron and Yellowjacket were. It seems that Marvel is finally getting the hang of this whole villain thing with them producing 2 compelling villains in Dormammu and Kaecilius. 8. Tilda Swinton  My goodness, can this woman act. Tilda Swinton as the The Ancient One gives nothing less than an Oscar worthy performance. There’s one specific scene with Benedict that will have you close to tears. 9. Explaining the multiverse. If you’re a casual Marvel movie fan then hearing things such as the multiverse, the Eye of Agamotto and the Wand of Watoomb might be a lot of information to process. However, the script is so well written that you never feel lost and by the end you fully understand the mystical jargon. 10. Incorporation of magic into the MCU  Magic in Marvel movies have for the most part been explained away through science. Yet, Doctor Strange doesn't shy away from it and opens the movie universe to the magical side of the Marvel comics. All picture credits: Jay Maidment