The Proteas fell into the trap set by the underwhelming Australian ODI side that visited South Africa last month. Losing a series 5-0 for the first time in history wouldn’t have been the full extent of the Aussies’ plan, but by keeping Mitchell Starc and Josh Hazlewood at home to rest up for the Test showdown, coach Darren Lehmann and his selectors made it clear which format they were prioritising. Make no mistake, Faf du Plessis’ team played some fascinating cricket to whitewash the visitors, and they had all the right to bask in the glow of inflicting such pain on their arch-rivals. But they perhaps lost some perspective after arriving Down Under. Du Plessis has mentioned the psychological impact the ODI outcome could have on the Aussies in the Tests, while Dale Steyn and Vernon Philander went straight in for the kill. Steyn talked about cutting off the head of the “snake” in targeting captain Steve Smith, while Philander ramped it up by saying that the Proteas may need to get “nasty” and “ugly and make things uncomfortable”. Well, it was the South Africans who would’ve felt quite uncomfortable after day one at the Waca, when they were bowled out for 242 after choosing to bat first, and then letting Warner blast them to all parts in a sizzling 105/0 in 21 overs. Worst still, it was Philander who was the villain when he bowled a no-ball to Warner when on 17, and the left-hander would’ve been given out lbw on review. Russell Domingo’s team would’ve felt down and out, and were in danger of nearly losing the game on the first day already. But the way they fought back on Friday was thrilling to watch. Steyn got the ball rolling by preventing Warner from reaching his 17th Test hundred with a wonderful set-up, keeping it straight for a while and then dishing up a wide one that was chased and nicked behind for 97. Even the shock of seeing Steyn break down with yet another shoulder injury that has ruled him out of the series – and possibly up to a year on the sidelines – didn’t deter this bunch of Proteas. Kagiso Rabada’s devastating delivery to destroy Usman Khawaja’s stumps was a sight to behold, while the “pro” Philander set about taking the lead in Steyn’s absence. He made the ball “talk” both ways to right- and left-handers, and kept the runs down as well, going for only 2.89 in 19.2 overs in bagging an impressive 4/56. Debutant Keshav Maharaj showed nerves of steel, and while he was a bit fortunate to claim Smith’s wicket lbw when the skipper was well down the pitch, he kept plugging away and was rewarded with 3/56. That South African “gees” was back, and it was a truly remarkable effort to restrict Australia to just 244 when they had been 158/0 earlier in the day, losing 10 wickets for 86 and gaining a lead of just two, which makes it essentially a single-innings match. The jitters would’ve returned, though, when Stephen Cook gave his wicket away after a cautious start for 12, and the “don” Hashim Amla being caught on the crease to chop a back-of-a-length Hazlewood delivery on to his stumps for just one. At 45/2 and with their best batsman gone, the Proteas could easily have caved under the pressure. The situation cried out for captain Du Plessis to come in at No 4 to halt the mini-collapse. But Domingo stuck to his guns and placed his confidence in JP Duminy, and the classy left-hander didn’t let him down. Duminy was a bit scratchy in the first innings, and was a tad unlucky to be given out caught behind when the TV review wasn’t totally conclusive on a hotspot mark. The 32-year-old was dropped from the Test side during last summer, and needed to prove in the second knock that he can hang in there and show mental toughness by occupying the crease for the rest of the day alongside Dean Elgar. And didn’t he just. He dealt mainly in boundaries – three glorious cover drives, one straight down the ground, a flick down leg and a pull off Starc – but it was his positive footwork that caught the eye. Duminy seemed to be clear in his mind about what he wanted to do with each ball, and he was even decisive against a right-arm off-spinner in Nathan Lyon, a type of bowler he has struggled with in the past. Elgar displayed his typical grit, having worn one on his forearm from Starc, and he didn’t allow Lyon to settle into a rhythm, hitting him for a six over long-on and a few other boundaries. Elgar (46 not out) and Duminy (unbeaten 34) fought hard to keep their wickets intact, and it was the application that was desperately needed to give the Proteas a fighting chance of winning the Test. The troubles of day one disappeared, and the South Africans had finally walked the talk from the build-up. Proteas fans will hope that this day will be long remembered as the turning point in the series, but the players will know that the job is far from done.  ashfak.mohamed@inl.co.za  @ashfakmohamed Independent Media