TV presenter, model and girl-about-town Amanda du-Pont has a stylish new gig as the co-presenter on BET A-List. Amanda will be co-hosting the weekly entertainment and lifestyle magazine show with Ayanda Thabethe for the next three months, shooting segments with A-listers and celebrities from across the continent.  She steps into the stilettos of pregnant Nandi Madida who taped her last episode last week before heading off on maternity leave. Ayanda and Amanda will keep audiences captivated weekly with the latest trends from around the African continent and abroad, unpacking everything from fashion, to music, movies and more, covering the hottest red carpet events and interviewing A-Listers from home and abroad. Amanda spent her first day shooting at Endemol Shine Studios in Randburg on 10 November, and her first episode of BET A-List will premiere on BET on Thursday 17 November at 18:35 CAT.  Highlights from the episode will include an exclusive behind-the-scenes peek at Anatii and Omarion’s new music video, an interview with the cast & crew of the new movie, “Kalushi: The Story of Solomon Mahlangu”, and a profile on Hip Hop’s most prolific photographer, Jonathan Mannion, the man responsible for iconic shots of artists like Jay Z and Lauryn Hill. Commented Amanda du-Pont, “I'm excited and incredibly blessed to have joined the BET A-List family. It's an absolute honour to be able to fill in for my dear friend Nandi Madida while she is on maternity leave. I love both Nandi and Ayanda dearly – they areboth such powerful and humble women. I love the show as it reaches throughout Africa, unifies Africa as a whole and still has international presence and opportunities.” BETA-List has been brightening up Thursday nights on BET (DStv channel 129) since 8 September. Among the many stars and celebrities who have featured on the show are Bonang Matheba, Cassper Nyovest, DJ Sbu, Boity, Monique Bingham, Wizkid, and many more.  For more information on BETA-List, visit www.betafrica.tv, like us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/BETinAfrica or join the conversation about the new show on Twitter and Instagram @BET_Africa using the hashtag #BETAList.  IOL adapted from press release