VUZU Rich Kids star Lauren Campbell, aka Fashionista CT, made her reality TV show debut recently and IOL Lifestyle chatted to the Cape Town blogger. READ: DJ Cuppy takes Africa by storm 1. When did VUZU contact you about appearing on Rich Kids & what made you agree to open yourself up to South Africa? VUZU contacted me two weeks before filming. I agreed to do the show because I wanted to show the South African girls that you don't need a blesser. I also wanted to show a glimpse into the life of a blogger. The show didn't reveal that much of my day-to-day life, just glimpses into my normal day. 2. What does a normal day look like for Lauren? My day normally starts at varsity. Afterwards I either have meetings with public relations companies or I have an event. Then I usually come home and do some work for my parents’ non-governmental organisation. 3. You are most know for your Instagram posts. Tell us your process before choosing the right picture? Instagram is not as easy as people think. There are so many  things that you need to think about. Is the lighting good?  Will I be inspired by this picture? Does it draw the right kind of attention? I also try and put up quotes that empower and inspire women. I believe that women should know their worth and love themselves. 4. What is the most expensive thing you've purchased? It’s most likely a pair of Christian Louboutin shoes. I can't really remember price but it was probably worth around R15 000. 5. What is you favourite place in the world? I would have to say it's Cape Town. I miss Table Mountain a lot when I'm travelling. From my flat I have the view of Table Mountain and the city bowl and nothing bets it! 6. How often do you travel and which place have you been? I travel twice a year and I've been to the U.S, U.K and U.A.E. 7. Once a year you visit Dallas, can you tell us why? I go to Dallas to visit close family & friends. Dallas is like a second home now. I even know how to navigate the highways. It's very close to my heart. 8. Why do you choose to make your life so public? You can’t be a lifestyle blogger without making your life public. I work with brands and incorporate them into my day-to-day life. If my lifestyle isn't public I won't be able to work with the various brands. READ: South Africa's REAL Top 10 Film Actresses 9. The general consensus is that blogging doesn’t pay. Do you agree? No. I make money through campaigns, blog posts, Instagram posts, Twitter posts, appearances, attending events & reviewing products. I also freelance at the moment helping brands with their social media management and branding.