Murray Williams says Elon Musk s key success factor was not his intellect, but his resilience and determination.We see change, across our world.Story One: Elon Musk is changing the world of electrical power.In Leonardo Di Caprio s Before the Flood, the most-watched National Geographic documentary in history, we hear Musk argue that 100 of his Tesla Gigafactory parks could power the world.We know Musk is a serial entrepreneurial genius. But even more fascinating: Growing up in South Africa, Musk s parents were divorced when he was 10 - he lived mostly with his dad. Musk was severely bullied throughout his childhood, and was once hospitalised when a group of boys threw him down a flight of stairs and then beat him until he blacked out. What if Musk s key success factor was not his intellect, but his resilience and determination - qualities forged into his DNA as a child?Story Two: In the Drakenstein district of the Western Cape, we see safety leaders gather - policemen, politicians, municipal executives, firefighters, doctors and neighbourhood watches. Thrashing out a plan to find common purpose between the fragmented multitude of safety planning processes - police sector forums, community police forums and sub-forums, ward committees, Integrated Development Plan co-ordinating committees, school safety committees, agricultural safety through farm watches, and more.And what is the foundation of their union, which we broker?One word: Trust. Carefully nurtured trust.Story Three: We see changing dynamics of political power.On the national stage, we see 101 ANC leaders take an extraordinary step: speaking out with one voice, alleging a failure to honour South Africa s Constitution, and those who sacrificed their lives to end apartheid. Do we see this as a power-play, in a giant chess game? Or is the driving force a value: integrity? Or accountability? An admission that their previous silence may border on complicity?Story Four: We read the work of journalists and the Public Protector. Researchers who ve trawled through thousands of documents and sources evidence and claims.One editor tweets: Jeez - this is such wonderful and brave reporting. Is this investigative brilliance? Or is this something else: courage?Story Five:On Friday, it was the birthday of a little school in the Cape Winelands founded in 1948 - the same year the Reunited National Party took power.An independent school, founded in defiance of the national curse.And what did the school celebrate, 68 years later? Integrity, Respect, Determination, Unselfishness, Team Spirit. United in the motto: Non Nobis Solum - not for ourselves alone. It celebrated its values - the most powerful force we have, to change our world.* Williams Shooting from the Lip column appears in the Cape Argus every Monday.Cape Argus