If you're struggling to get into the Christmas spirit this year we have some top DIY décor ideas to put you in the mood, get you giggling with your family. What better way to get into the Christmas spirit than spending family time together making some great Christmas décor? Paint a pine cone Grab the family, head to a nearby Pine forest and enjoy a relaxing stroll while the kids run around frantically collecting pine cones. Paint your pine cones a colour that best fits your Christmas theme. Once they are dry, the last step is to hang them on some string for the Christmas tree or mix in a few candles and you have a winner. Hessian, candles, glass and greenery This one is a definite winner for any Christmas table décor. It's time to dig out that large vase that's been sitting at the back of your cupboard. Place a candle in the middle of the vase surround it with lush greenery and finish it off with a little bit of hessian to surround the bottom of the vase. This makes a beautiful but simple centrepiece for any table. READ: TREND ALERT: Christmas decorations go retro New use for Christmas baubles So you've already overloaded your tree with all the tinsel, lights and baubles, but you have some baubles and tinsel left over that you would really like to use. Here's what to do: dust off some clear vases that you never use, pop in the baubles and tinsel and there you have it - something beautiful and effective to bring the Christmas spirit into every part of your home. Paint those pallets Find some leftover wooden pallets and paint some Christmas text on them, like 'Joy to the world" or "Merry & Bright. Place this as a feature decoration in your home and finish it off with some leftover tinsel. Festive christmas wreath using a wire hanger Start by taking your wire hanger and bending it into a circle, dab some hot glue under the ornament caps to secure them. Then you untwist the wire at the top of your hanger. Start stringing your ornaments on the hanger one at a time and you'll want to make sure to alternate your sizes and colours for the most impact. Once you have finished stringing all your ornaments you can add your Christmas foliage. Secure it to the hanger with floral wire. READ: Time to get your house in order Short and sweet message Find a discarded wooden board, paint it with chalkboard paint, stock up on colourful chalk and cover the board with fun, Christmas messages. Place this as part of your décor around the house. Don't be overwhelmed this year with thoughts of festive décor. These simple and fun DIY décor tips will get you into a cheery mood in no time at all. Plus they'll save you some money, brighten up your home and offer a fun afternoon with the family.