Johannesburg - There’s something delightfully decadent chilling next to the pool while the business of business and all the chaos and noise that goes with it happens right in the hub of Sandton. Because that’s what you’ll be doing at the Sandton Sun, considered the grand old dame of of luxury hotels and it certainly lives up to its name. Frequented mostly by business people from all over the world because of its proximity to Africa’s economic hub, it’s not the kind of place families come to have fun and relax, but if you have your spouse with you, some free time and an unlimited credit card, the shopping could be a whole lot of fun I’m sure. I had none of the above, except my wife, and on the way to the restaurant took a short left and ogled at what’s called “diamond walk”, which boasts shops such as Cartier, Louis Vuitton, Prada and any other famous exclusive brand you could wish for. We headed to our dinner  and were shown to our table outside at the edge overlooking the head offices of some of South Africa’s financial powerhouses. Their website describes it as distinguished and stylish and they certainly weren’t kidding, especially the San deck where the upwardly mobile were chilling to good music while sipping cocktails and wine around fire pits on large cushions, comfortable chairs and couches. The service was brilliant and so too the food.  A photo posted by Gregg Hammond (@gregghammond) on Jun 4, 2016 at 5:22am PDT  I had sea bass and my wife biltong-dusted fillet and both were cooked to perfection, presented tastefully and with a variety of  vegetables. We were booked into a Superior/double room which was tastefully fitted with a proper desk and an impressive king-sized bed with mood lighting. It’s a standard bathroom with a lovely deep bath and a shower that feels like you’re standing under the Niagara Falls. A  feature you can’t miss is the impressive chandelier as you move up or down in the escalator. I don’t want to be the poor blighter tasked with having to clean or repair it.  A photo posted by Tsogo Sun (@tsogosun) on Mar 17, 2016 at 3:14am PDT  Early morning breakfast overlooking the waking metropolis is hot or cold and again you’ll be impressed by the level of service and friendly staff . Sandton Sun has seven business suite meeting rooms, which were all occupied during our short stay, and conference facilities for up to 200 delegates. If you’re looking to impress your loved one, want a special touch to your meal or hang out with the seriously cool crowd on the San deck, this old lady won’t disappoint you. Independent Traveller