Durban - It started with a brand new car bought for R190 000 cash, a fancy new flat, regular shopping sprees at Woolworths and private college education. When a KwaZulu-Natal South Coast auto electrician wondered where the money was coming from to fund his family’s suddenly lavish lifestyle, he apparently figured out that his wife had a wealthy benefactor. Now the devastated father of two wants his wife’s alleged lover – the doctor she had consulted, and eventually married after dumping him – to be punished. Speaking at a Health Professions Council of SA inquiry on Monday, the complainant, who is in his thirties, cried as he recalled contemplating suicide when he saw his family being ripped apart. He laid the blame squarely on the shoulders of the 42-year-old specialist surgeon. However, the doctor, dressed in a two-piece suit, pleaded not guilty to unprofessional conduct. Accompanying him at the hearing in uMhlanga was his wife, who used to be married to the complainant. The equally well-dressed woman, 37, is also expected to testify in the hearing. POST and IOL have decided to withold the names of the parties to protect their minor children. The HPCSA has accused the doctor of having an inappropriate relationship with his patient between 2013 and 2014. The doctor’s lawyer, advocate Ian Dutton, however, said his client would deny having an affair while he was treating her, explaining he only began seeing her after he had terminated the doctor-patient relationship. But the auto electrician, whose evidence was led by HPCSA pro forma complainant, advocate Meshack Mapholisa, would hear none of it and is adamant that the surgeon should be held accountable for breaking up his family “In April 2013, my wife buys a new (VW) Polo for R190 000 and pays cash for it. When I asked her about how she paid for it, she said her mother had an investment policy which matured and when I asked her for proof she could not provide me with any,” he said. He said since they married (in 2000) they had been living with his wife’s mother because he had been paying the bond on her house, but shortly after his wife bought the car, she told him that they would be moving into a fully-furnished flat in an upmarket area “I was puzzled yet excited to be living on our own. She told me that the rent was R4 500 and that the landlord just wants someone to look after the place.” Describing their new apartment as “very luxurious”, the man said he then began noticing his wife’s lifestyle improve. “She refused to accept money from me, but would top her petrol tank. All of a sudden she had loads of cash. She then put our daughter in an upmarket school. When I asked her, she said she had another policy. She began eating out and shopping at Woolworths. This made me feel worthless.” He said he began questioning where the money was coming from, as he could never afford to pay cash for a car. He said when they moved into their new home, people from their church came home to pray. “Our lifestyle changed just like that,” he said, clicking his fingers, “and I was excited about it.” He said it was a mockery to God. “I had no idea… I kept pushing for answers. She finally admitted that the doctor had bought the car and was paying for the flat we were living in. I told her no man would (provide) that and expect nothing in return. She said it was not like that and that they were good friends.” He said he told the doctor to back off from his wife, but he allegedly professed his love for her. The man said his pride was hurt and he packed his bags and left home in January 2014. He and his wife divorced in May that year. The man (who had protection orders against him) told the inquiry that he was not violent and had accepted that his wife had moved on. When asked if he would have taken his ex-wife back after an affair, he said: “If God can forgive (a rapist, a killer), who am I not to forgive her? I have forgiven her. I have no hatred in me. I will not belittle my soul or my spirit.” Describing his ex-wife as a “beautiful woman”, the man accused the doctor of emotionally blackmailing his wife so that she could fall in love with him “My wife had two miscarriages and was very emotional and depressed. He manipulated the situation.” The man said his wife had been treated by the doctor since 2010 and he was uncertain if his second child was his. “But I do not want to know.” He said he wanted the HPCSA to find the doctor guilty, as he had trusted him to treat his wife. “I am horrified that as a doctor he… involved himself with a married woman with two children. I can’t get my family back, but other doctors must know they cannot manipulate families because they have the power to do so.” The doctor denied responsibility for the breakdown of the marriage.His lawyer argued that the complainant was “hell-bent on revenge”. Referring to the complainant’s admission that he had once called his wife “cheap trash”, Dutton said: “It is no wonder your wife left you because of your treatment of her.” He told the hearing the couple’s problems began 11 years ago. Responding to allegations that he had had an affair after the birth of their first child, the complainant said: “My wife was moody and nagged me and this woman and I used to speak on the phone. I confessed to my wife after I saw it was going deeper. It was not physical.” Under cross examination, he further admitted to having entered the home when his wife was not there and tearing up family photos. The hearing is proceeding. POST