Cape Town Beauty Bar is based at the Urban Hub on the corner of bustling Buitengracht and Wale Street in Cape Town CBD. They opened their doors to the public in late August, 2016, offering "no frills, no fuss" treatments for the executive woman-on-the-go. A photo posted by Cape Town Beauty Bar (@capetownbeautybar) on Jul 15, 2016 at 7:13am PDT I popped in on Friday afternoon for a quick pedicure and wash and blow-dry. The owner, Dean Meldau welcomed me and he immediately ensured that I had the Wi-Fi password, an essential nowadays. He also informed me that there are 2 parking bays reserved for Cape Town Beauty Bar customers right outside the front door. READ: Lady Gaga on her split from Taylor Kinney The pedicure was the standard Morgan Taylor pedicure; however, what immediately impressed me was that the therapist sprayed sanitising spray onto every piece of equipment prior to using it. A photo posted by Cape Town Beauty Bar (@capetownbeautybar) on Sep 26, 2016 at 5:09am PDT I have huge concerns with sanitisation or (lack thereof) of salon equipment as I know a few people who have contracted very nasty infections from unhygienic manicure and pedicure equipment, often resulting in months of treatment attempting to save their nails from fungal infections. READ: #TourismForAll: Where to have the perfect picnic in Cape Town The hair wash experience is unique as opposed to sitting upright; I was lying horizontal on a mini chaise lounge - relaxing the neck whilst having my hair washed and scalp massaged. My stylist, Kimmie, was really gentle with my hair and for once my head was not being yanked around whilst having my hair blow dried. A photo posted by Cape Town Beauty Bar (@capetownbeautybar) on Aug 25, 2016 at 6:36am PDT 1. Blow-dry bar, cut and colour. 2. Range of styling options for both Caucasian and ethnic hair; a lavish 'African Queen' menu, and one of the top ethnic hairstylists in the country. 3. Nail bar for mani's and pedi's. 4. Tanning lounge using Vita Liberata Luxury Tan. 5. Temptu makeup station. It was a great experience and I shall definitely be returning.  For more information click here 