THE standing committee on public accounts (Scopa) has called on ministers and heads of departments to become tough on corruption, and not allow corrupt individuals to get off the hook.Scopa chairperson Themba Godi said yesterday the findings of the auditor-general into irregular expenditure must be acted on.He said they were tired of hearing the same stories every year but with no action taken against corrupt officials.This year alone the auditor-general has reported irregular expenditure of R45 billion.Godi said they would, starting from today, interrogate irregular expenditure in government. This process will run until the end of the month.Departments and entities that are to appear before Scopa on irregular expenditure include the South African Social Security Agency, with irregular expenditure of R1.1bn, and the Department of Water and Sanitation, with irregular expenditure of R2.4bn.The Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa), with irregular expenditure of R9bn, will also go before Scopa in the next few days.The Department of Co-operative Governance has incurred irregular expenditure of R1bn. Godi said they wanted to see more action taken against corrupt officials.They were concerned that ministers and heads of departments do not act on corruption.He said the solution did not lie in giving the auditor-general extra powers to clamp down on corruption. It's the executive that must act. We raise these things year in and year out and nothing is done. He said the country has reached a stage where ministers and heads of departments must not tolerate corruption.He said the Constitutional Court judgment on Nkandla was damning on the findings of the public protector. All it's saying is that it s almost as if we are all watching helplessly, that there is no internal drive within the executive. We are static in one place where there is a lot of rot. Parliament will stand or fall on its ability to ensure there is consequence management, said Godi. We want ministers and heads of departments to have less tolerance on wrongdoing. The meetings they were having with departments and entities on irregular expenditure were to break the logjam on corruption.There needed to be tough action on corrupt officials, he said.Godi said they could not understand how a department or entity could incur R9bn in irregular expenditure in a year.