Harare - The demonstration against the introduction of bond notes and rampant corruption failed to take off in Harare, after some organisers were abducted and tortured allegedly by police, an activist said on Friday. Activists who were abducted included Israel Kauzani, Nyashanu Mangena and two others only identified as Liberty and Shonhai. It was not yet clear where they had been taken. What I can confirm is that there was a high speed car chase in Mufakose last night. The cars that were involving cde Kauzani and Patson Dzamara, they were actually being chased by members of the central intelligence and law and order section, Tajamuka spokesperson, Silvanos Mudzvova said. Mudzvovo confirmed the abductions, which took place around midnight near Mufakose. Upon reaching the intersection of Mukonono and High Glen, they were blocked from the front and that is when they decided to disembark and to proceed on foot, but unfortunately upon leaving the cars, the cars were burnt and others could not run as fast so those who were caught were heavily assaulted and they are currently admitted at hospital, Dzamara said speaking from his bed at a private hospital in Harare. Dzamara said he was taken by armed men, two of them in police uniform, who assaulted him with button sticks and a metal object. He said they were intercepted as they left Mufakose where they had gone to pick up a friend to prepare for the demonstration. Whilst on our way, two cars blocked our way and another one blocked us from behind. Armed men, some in police uniform approached us, me in particular with their guns pointing at me and ordered me to lie down . When I lay down they started beating me using button sticks and a metal object, he said. They blindfolded me and bundled me into their truck; the others were not taken from the scene, but they took me from the scene and took me to where i am confident is Lake Chivero. He said the men communicated for some time with someone who he suspected was their boss. They communicated with someone they called boss, saying we have two options, how are we going to finish this. We have the metal and the plastic container and also cotton but no catalyst, which I did not know understand what it was, he said. They talked for a long time with that boss who i think eventually told them not to kill or hurt me..they then drove me for about forty minutes until they dumped me near Lake Chivero in the bush. I had to crawl to the road so as to find help..it was not easy but I eventually got help and managed to call my brother. He said his colleagues were badly beaten and were admitted at the same hospital with minor injuries. Dzamara confirmed that the two cars they were driving in were burnt to ashes at the scene where they were abducted. He, however, said he was not dissuaded by the attacks although he was psychologically disturbed. Physically I am in pain and I am psychologically disturbed... But I am not discouraged and dissuaded, I believe a new Zimbabwe will come and we will continue to demand it, he said. The European Union Delegation, the Heads of Mission of EU Member States in Harare and the Head of Mission of Switzerland condemned the abductions and appealed to authorities in Harare to investigate the matter. They said human rights, democracy and the rule of law were essential elements of the bilateral relations between the European Union and Zimbabwe, adding it was not possible for peace and development to exist where there was no respect for human rights. Heads of Mission of the EU and Switzerland have received reports indicating that some social activists have been abducted and brutalised by unknown persons in the run-up to today's demonstrations, they said in a joint statement issued Friday. The Heads of Mission note with growing concern a significant and worrying increase in the number of incidents over recent months, in violation of the fundamental human rights and freedoms enshrined in Chapter 4 of the Constitution. They said the incidents included acts of intimidation, violence, abduction and torture, violations of the rights of arrested and detained persons, and a lack of respect of the freedom of assembly and association and the freedom to demonstrate and petition. They said the government of Zimbabwe should take the responsibility to protect its citizens, regardless of their political affiliation, from torture and abductions. Activists and human rights groups in the country had planned a mega demonstration, dubbed Munhuwose Muroad (Everyone in the streets) to protest against the introduction of bond notes and the alarming levels of corruption in the country. Police maintained a heavy presence in the central business district of Harare, especially at known places where demonstrations usually start. Pastor Phillip Mugadza, who rose to prominence after staging a one man demonstration at the Zanu PF conference in Victoria Falls last December, however, staged a one man demonstration near the Copacabana bus terminus. The demonstration was brief as the pastor quickly disappeared after a group of about 10 anti-riot police officers advanced towards him. African News Agency