The mother of the biggest superstar in the world took the stage at Essence Festival where she shared a few life lessons as a business woman. Tina’s trip to the "mother land" wasn’t all work though. READ: Dream Kardashian melts my heart She found time to visit The Oyster Box with her husband Richard Lawson, go out for dinner with Steve Harvey and enjoy Ne-Yo’s concert at the festival. See all the fabulous posts below: In South Africa  at dinner with the super talented Steve Harvey and his beautiful fashionista wife Marjorie ❤️@marjorie_harvey @mrrichardlawson A photo posted by Tina Knowles (@mstinalawson) on Nov 10, 2016 at 2:04pm PST Happy to be in the motherland with my beautiful friend @marjorie_harvey. Photo by @robertector A photo posted by Tina Knowles (@mstinalawson) on Nov 10, 2016 at 2:26pm PST In S. Africa  simply beautiful❤️Spoke at a breakfast this morning at Essence Festival . Got very emotional because just looking at the beautiful color combinations exquisite textures  in fabrics and jewelry . The fabulous head wraps and creativity.  The audience sang in perfect harmony like a rehearsed choir ! They were people who had never seen each other ) They just naturally sang that beautiful together repeating verses blending together to make the most joyful noise!  The movement of the dance the perfect natural rhythm  and movement of the hips and hands said it all . The first thing I said through tears was I understand I know where we got it!!!!!!!It  all started here! ❤️ More proud  than ever❤️ A video posted by Tina Knowles (@mstinalawson) on Nov 11, 2016 at 12:55pm PST Me and Marjorie jammin to Neyo in S. Africa Essence Festival! A video posted by Tina Knowles (@mstinalawson) on Nov 12, 2016 at 12:17pm PST Me and Yvette at Neyo concert in S. Africa Essence Festival❤️ A photo posted by Tina Knowles (@mstinalawson) on Nov 12, 2016 at 12:24pm PST I got to speak to These beautiful young girls  at the Essence Festival in Durban South Africa.  I love this sound.❤️when you really agree or love something you (women)make this sound! A video posted by Tina Knowles (@mstinalawson) on Nov 12, 2016 at 10:45pm PST