Bogota - Brazilian soccer team Chapecoense, heading for the biggest game in their history, were on board a plane carrying 81 people that crashed in Colombia killing 76 people, police said on Tuesday. Chapecoense, from Brazil's top league, had been flying to face Atletico Nacional of Medellin in the first leg of Wednesday's Sudamericana final, South America's equivalent of the Europa League. It was the first time the small club from Chapeco had reached the final of a major South American club competition. Three players were among the survivors, Colombian disaster authorities said. “Six people were rescued alive, but unfortunately one died. The rest of the occupants unfortunately died. The tragic toll is 76 victims,” Jose Gerardo Acevedo, regional police commander, told journalists. The plane crashed in a mountainous rural area outside of the city of Medellin and heavy rains at one point halted rescue operations. News showed photos of twisted wreckage and hospital staff awaiting patients. The club said in a statement that it would not be making any official comments until it had more information from Colombian authorities about Monday night's crash. Flight tracking service Flightradar24 said on Twitter the last tracking signal from flight 2933 had been received when it was at 15 500 feet, about 30 km from its destination, which sits at an altitude of 7 000 feet. The Avro RJ85 was produced by a company that is now part of UK's BAE Systems The charter flight was carrying 72 passengers and nine crew, when it crashed around 10:15 p.m. on Monday. Heavy rain first hampered and then halted rescue operations. Officials told local media that bodies would be removed at first light. Brazilian news organizations reported 21 journalists had been on board to cover the match.  TRIBUTES The crash evoked memories of Munich air disaster in 1958, which killed 23 people including eight Manchester United players, journalists and travelling officials. Players Alan Luciano Ruschel, Marcos Danilo Padilha and Jacson Ragnar Follmann were listed as survivors in a statement from the disaster management agency. Chapecoense qualified for the biggest game in their history after overcoming Argentine club San Lorenzo in the semi-final on away goals following a 1-1 draw in Buenos Aires and a 0-0 draw at home. They were very much the underdogs for the match against a club going for a rare double after winning the Copa Libertadores in July. Chapecoense were the 21st biggest club in Brazil in terms of revenue, bringing in 46 million reais ($13.5 million) in 2015, according to an annual rich list compiled by Brazilian bank Itau BBA. The club has built its success on a frugal spending policy that eschewed big money signings and instead concentrated on blending young talent and experienced journeymen. Their best-known player was Cleber Santana, a midfielder who best years were spent in Spain with Athletico Madrid and Mallorca. Coach Caio Junior was also experienced, having managed at some of Brazil's biggest clubs, Botafogo, Flamengo and Palmeiras among them The crash prompted an outpouring of solidarity and grief on social media from the footballing community, with Brazilian top flight teams Flamengo and Santo tweeting messages of support. Porto goalkeeper Iker Casillas tweeted: “My condolences for the plane accident that carried @ChapecoenseReal. Tough moment for football. Good luck and stay strong!” The South American football federation suspended all games and other activities following the crash.  ($1=3.4031 reais) Reuters