Cape Town - The Cape Town station deck is due for a major upgrade worth R250 million, over the next three years, but the city s transport authority wants input from at least 700 taxi drivers and commuters first, before deciding on any infrastructural changes. Some of the changes could include a new design, layout and facilities or changes to how the station deck operates. While the start of construction is only slated for September, the city said it was possible short-term interventions could be introduced sooner while the redesign was being formulated. Starting on Monday, surveys will be conducted for a week, to determine the needs and expectations of those currently using the facility, to inform Transport for Cape Town (TCT) s short-term interventions. Mini-bus taxi drivers, operators, passengers and vendors on the station deck will be asked to participate in the survey, which would also be used to inform TCT s vision for an inner-city public transport hub, said mayoral committee member for transport, Brett Herron. He said the existing facilities were not meeting the needs and demands of commuters. The Golden Acre terminal and the station deck minibus-taxi rank were also not designed to handle the current vehicle volume and movements. A better system was needed to cater for the circulation of traffic, disembarking and alighting. TCT expected the station deck survey to reveal other inefficiencies such as lack of pedestrian and rail access to and from the adjacent area. There is clear lack of a thoroughfare for pedestrians to link both sides of the railway station. The station forms a barrier in the urban grid, hindering pedestrian movements between the foreshore area and the south-east of the central business district, said Herron.Survey participants will be asked about their daily experiences on the station deck, shortcomings, expectations and needs. The interviews, which could take up to 15 minutes, will be conducted by Freshly Ground Insights who will be wearing name tags and an identity photo. The results are expected early in the new year, when the city should also be ready to announce the planned infrastructural changes to the station deck.An upgrade to the station deck would be the second planned for the Cape Town Station next year, with a property consortium working with Prasa expected to also begin construction on a R1 billion hotel, office and retail complex on the western forecourt. The station received a R408m upgrade for the 2010 World Cup and a further R126m redevelopment of the Parade forecourt which was completed last year.[email&#160;protected]Cape Argus