Johannesburg - Suspended Gauteng head of sports, arts, culture and recreation, Namhla Siqaza, earned more than other public servants occupying the same position in provincial government departments across the country. This was revealed in response to a question by the DA s Jack Bloom to Gauteng Premier David Makhura after Siqaza was placed on suspension in October last year for a series of alleged misconduct charges brought against her.Bloom asked the premier what Siqaza's salary was in rand and cents when she was employed by the department.In his response, seen by The Sunday Independent, Makhura replied: Ms Namhla Siqaza was employed as head of the department at the Gauteng department of sports, arts, culture and recreation from February 1, 2012. Her annual remuneration package was aligned to the service conditions and salaries issued on an annual basis by the Minister of Public Service and Administration. The annual remuneration package of Ms Siqaza was approved by Premier Nomvula Mokonyane at R1 399 797.00 at the time of her appointment on February 1, 2012. The remuneration package is equivalent to notch 1 of level 16, Makhura said.However, he said the salary level was initially set at level 15. However, in light of the enormous responsibility of the department it was decided by the executive authority (Premier Nomvula Mokonyane) at the time that the post be remunerated at level 16. However, insiders were unhappy with the response and said, like Community Safety, the department was one of the smallest of the provincial government. The department of sports, arts, culture and recreation has a budget of R700 million compared to other departments which have budgets of more than R20 billion, but their HODs are on level 15, one of the insiders said.Reacting, the premier s spokesperson, Phumla Sekhonyane, said: We found the contract of Ms Siqaza in place and we had no option but to honour it. Bloom also questioned the authenticity of the date of employment of Siqaza. Makhura said it was indeed on February 1, 2012 but the then-premier and the administrators of the contract omitted to put a date on the space provided for that . In terms of good governance practice, documents such as contracts must be complete in form and all respective sections must be completed. However, the law is clear on the matter of dating documents and to this end I am advised that the legal presumption is that a document is executed on the date it bears, Makhura said.However, he said the omission of the date of Siqaza s employment did not constitute an irregularity as suggested by Bloom. This is so because the omission does not nullify the contract. Section 2A of the National Strategic Intelligence Act (Act No&acirc; 39 of 1994) grants the relevant members of the National Intelligence discretion to conduct a vetting investigation. As a matter of fact, Ms Siqaza underwent a process of vetting and was issued with a Top Secret security clearance certificate by the State Security Agency on November 18, 2011 and it was valid until November 30, 2016, Makhura said.However, he said his office would review all HOD s contracts of employment entered into before June 2014 to ensure they comply with the highest standards of corporate governance.Reacting to a question on how much was paid to Siqaza since she was placed on suspension, Makhura said she was paid her normal salary, including benefits. Sunday Independent