Cape Town - Police are investigating a case of sexual assault against a Pakistani businessman in Cape Town who allegedly tried to pay for sex with a 10-year-girl. The 28-year-old, who owns a popular Cape Flats cellphone shop, is believed to have offered his 20-year-old girlfriend R1 000 to arrange the deal. In a series of WhatsApp messages, he allegedly told the woman what he wanted the girl to do to him. Shocked by his outrageous request, the woman told the girl’s mother, her friend, about it. The Manenberg mother, 32, who cannot be identified to protect the child, said she wanted to “take the law into [her] own hands” but decided to lay a charge with police instead. The 20-year-old woman said her boyfriend saw the little girl earlier this year. “I was at his shop in June to get money and she was with me when he saw her for the first time,” she explained. “She was standing by the door when he asked me who that was and I told him it’s my friend’s child, and I left it at that. “Last Sunday while the two of us were out, he suddenly asked me about [the child again]. “He asked me if she has breasts and if she was already [menstruating]. I was shocked and I just wanted to get home. “When I asked him about it again later that day, he said he was drunk, but when I asked him about it on Monday morning, he said he was serious. “I thought he was my boyfriend but he obviously lied to me.” She spilled the beans to her friend hours later, and they decided trap the businessman. The child’s mother said: “I was grateful that she told me but I was angry. I wanted to report him to the police but I knew I would need evidence of what he asked. So I told her to start a conversation with him on WhatsApp so I could show it to police,” she said. During the alleged conversation between the businessman and his girlfriend, which the mom shared on Facebook, the man repeatedly asks for photos, and wrote: “I’m serious, when you gonna bring her. Send me her picture.” Asked how she should approach the girl about the sex requests, he allegedly said: “I will give you 1000 [rand], you can give her anything from the 1000 [rand].” When asked about the sex he wanted, he allegedly said: “I just want suck and her back side, nothing else.” The child’s angry mother said she couldn’t believe what she read. “Just knowing that he looks at my daughter in that way, I thought about how I wanted to destroy him and make him suffer,” she said. The mother said police initially told her she couldn’t open a case “because the deed was not done”, but she managed to lay the charge on Saturday with the help of Hanif Loonat, the cluster chairperson of the Mitchells Plain CPF, who saw her post on Facebook. Police spokesperson Constable Noloyiso Rwexana said a case of sexual assault is being investigated and no arrest has been made yet. Daily Voice