Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt have reached a custody agreement. The former couple's six children Maddox, 15, Pax, 12, Zahara, 11, Shiloh, 10, and eight-year-old twins Knox and Vivienne will remain in the care of the 41-year-old actress and their father will continue to have "therapeutic visits" as advised by "childcare professionals," according to a statement obtained by E! Online. The statement reads: "We can confirm that childcare professionals have encouraged a legal agreement accepted and signed by both sides over a week ago. In accordance with this agreement, the six children will stay in their mother's custody, and the children will continue therapeutic visits with their father. This has been determined by childcare professionals to be in the children's best interest." It continues: "We are not in a position to discuss the details. We hope now that it is clear that the events which led to the dissolution filing involved minor children and their well being, there will be understanding of the sensitivity of the family situation. We believe that all sides are committed to healing the family and ask for your consideration during this difficult time." Though Brad has agreed to the terms, the 52-year-old star filed for joint custody of the children on Friday. He is alleged to have gotten "verbally abusive" and "physical" with their son Maddox while under the influence of alcohol during a flight days and Angelina filed for divorce just days later. It was later reported that "Maddox suffered no injuries and some witnesses on the jet say Brad's contact with the boy was inadvertent". All of the children had to undergo a meeting with a therapist before their reunion with Brad and his eventual time with them was "emotional". Despite their acrimonious split and Angelina's decision to seek sole physical custody of the kids, the insider claims the 'Maleficent' star doesn't want to sour the children's view of their father. The source said: "[Angelina] is not trying to poison the kids against Brad. ... She wants them to have a relationship with him once their health and safety is assured."However, another source admitted: "No other visitations have been scheduled."  Bang Showbiz