Durban - Nearly 700 000 South Africans admitted to physically harming people who did not dress and behave according to their biological gender in the past 12 months, new research has revealed.A report by the Other Foundation, which looked at the country s attitudes towards homosexuals and gender non-conformists , found disturbingly high levels of prejudice, abuse, and violence against homosexuals and those who do not conform to gender norms.The report is the first to look into the issue on a national scale.Researchers had surveyed people across the country and found: - About 450 000 South Africans admitted physically harming women who are gender non-conforming.- About 240 000 admitted physically harming transgender men who are gender non-conforming.- About 700 000 South Africans admitted verbally abusing gender non-conformists.- Men are almost twice as likely to be violent towards gender non-conformists.- About seven in 10 felt strongly that homosexual sex and breaking gender norms was wrong and disgusting .&nbsp;Three million respondents said they might be violent towards gender non-conformists in the future.Regarding homosexuality, it found that about 45% said they would not accept a gay family member, and just below half of respondents thought homosexuals should not have the same human rights as other South Africans.Professor of gender and sexuality education at UKZN, Thabo Msibi, said while the numbers were alarmingly high , one should not paint the picture that South Africa was especially homophobic and transphobic. We do have homophobia and transphobia in the country and province, but that doesn t necessarily mean that when confronted by a gender non-conforming individual that South Africans instantly react in a negative manner. Msibi said homophobic and transphobic sentiment was likely experienced in all echelons of KwaZulu-Natal. There is an unfounded belief that rural and township people are more homophobic than those from urban areas. Anecdotal evidence suggests you experience it regardless of where you are. He said, likewise, that people in rural areas might be accepting, regardless of strong traditions and cultures. I was at a funeral in uMlazi where a colleague s same-sex partner had died, and the people at the funeral were celebrating their love.Msibi said more research was needed into the topic to provide a more sophisticated analysis of homosexuality and transsexuality in the country to better understand the experiences of those in rural, urban and township areas. You can t say rural (people) will be more homophobic because homophobia is experienced differently depending on space, time, and the people you are confronted with. He said the education sector could play a pivotal role in young people unlearning prejudices. We don t teach what makes us uncomfortable, he said. We need to teach about gender non-conformity or else we will deprive future generations of freedoms they ought to enjoy. He added that religious organisations needed to be more inclusive because they sometimes help fuel homophobia .The Mercury