Comedy Central (DStv channel 122) is celebrating the war of words, policies and insults that is the US presidential election with its “Season Finale of America” themed week of programming. Tune in every weeknight from now until 9 November and you can enjoy the sight of a South African breaking down the madness (watching Trevor Noah has never been more fun), SNL's nightly lampooning of the candidates, and South Park getting animated over the electoral insanity. It's going to be the season finale to end all season finales… Keeping up the fun Comedy Central has challenged 5 local stand-ups to take on some not-so-presidential challenges. For so long they've had audiences laughing at our own president, but now it's time America got theirs… So, every weekday from November 3 to November 9, these comedians will embrace the electoral silly season with some equally silly stunts that shed practically no light on the important issues being debated back in Washington. The hilarious challenges will be posted daily on Comedy Central Twitter and Facebook sites (@ComedyCentralAF and www.Facebook.com/ComedyCentralAfrica) so keep an eagle eye out for the following:  3 November - Locker Room - An innuendo-filled locker room chat takes Joey Rasdien into the changing room of the Highveld Lions with cricketers Rassie van der Dussen and Dominic Hendricks as Rasdien attempts to define the linguistic boundaries of guy-talk, Trump-style, with the sporting duo…..  4 November - Plagiarism - Mojak Lehoko is ready to speak his truth. Or is he? As he puts together a speech Melania-style, it'll be anyone's guess whether he is using his words, or someone else with better biceps.  7 November - Grab Them by The ***** - There are many ways to proposition people without committing sexual assault. Lihle Lindzy is heading out to see exactly how many ways there are to grab someone. Preferably without being arrested.  8 November - Pant Suit - Representing one third of comedy trio Goliath & Goliath, Jason Goliath gets stylishly in touch with his inner presidential hopeful by rocking a pant suit Hillary-style, and discovering just how big a boost power-dressing can give him.  9 November - Orange Glow - As the palest of the Goliaths, Donovan Goliath will be finding out just what it takes to get that tangerine Donald hue, raiding cosmetic shelves and more to find the optimal, day-glo results.   To join in the debate about Comedy Central's presidential debate please go to www.comedycentralafrica.com, like us on Facebook at www.Facebook.com/ComedyCentralAfrica, or follow us on Twitter and Instagram @ComedyCentralAF, using the hashtag #CCNews.    1) CC Locker Room Talk (V3) from Tshego Mabunda on Vimeo. IOL adapted from a press release