Durban - Before sentencing a Glenwood man to five years in jail for 48 counts of creating child pornography and a further 48 counts of possession of child pornography, the magistrate had a few choice words for him. In this day and age one cannot view children as objects of pleasure. Even in the animal kingdom animals protect their young, Durban Regional Court magistrate Lee Bonhomme told 30-year-old Karl Kiloh on Monday.The accused had pleaded guilty to the charges in July, saying loneliness and depression had led to him communicating with adults on the internet, and who sent him pornographic pictures and videos of children. He said he had been an outgoing and social person until a motorcycle accident in 2007 left him a paraplegic. I had to use a wheelchair to move around. I had to be housebound all the time. All my friends abandoned me. I became lonely and depressed and started consuming dagga, which led me to becoming addicted, he said in his plea.He said the only contact he had was with his immediate family and adults he chatted with online. Some of his contacts sent him pornographic pictures of children posing naked or half naked, simulating or engaging in sexual acts, which he downloaded. He admitted to being stimulated by these images, but said he did not act on them.In December police raided his home and confiscated cellphones and other hard drives. He was arrested and charged.Kiloh had told the court he was remorseful and his Legal Aid attorney, who did not want to be named, had asked the court for punishment with a measure of mercy.Prosecutor Jerome Gnanapragas had argued for Kiloh to be imprisoned, saying child pornography was the first step down a dangerous road. He had also referred to the images downloaded, including one of a child rape.During sentencing the magistrate agreed the videos were extremely graphic and that one could see the children were under 10-years-old.Bonhomme said while Kiloh was not directly responsible for producing the images and videos, he had provided a market for these type of things .Kiloh will be eligible for parole after serving a minimum of 10 months in prison.Daily News