Ralph Fiennes was crowned Best Actor at the 2016 London Evening Standard Theatre Awards. The 53-year-old actor picked up the accolade for his performances in both 'The Master Builder' and 'Richard III' at a star-studded bash held at London's Old Vic Theatre on Sunday evening November 12. The veteran actor beat off stiff competition from Sir Ian McKellen, Sir Kenneth Branagh, James McArdle and O-T Fagbenle to take home the Best Actor statuette. Best Play went to 'Harry Potter and the Cursed Child' and was presented to director John Tiffany by Dame Maggie Smith. Speaking on stage, he said: "It's a show about the peril of isolation, about unity, about family and about love." Singer-turned-actress Billie Piper, 34, was the proud recipient of the Natasha Richardson Award for Best Actress for her part in 'Yerma'. Prince William presented Sir David Attenborough with the Beyond Theatre award for his outstanding contribution to broadcasting. John Malkovich  was given the Milton Shulman Award for Best Director for 'Good Canary' and Sir Kenneth Branagh was given the Lebedev Award for his performances at London's The Garrick  theatre. Elsewhere, 'Sunset Boulevard' star Glenn Close was awarded the Best Musical Performance prize from Sir Elton John, who co-hosted the ceremony with the Evening Standard's owner Evgeny Lebedev. Other stars in attendance included Mark Rylance, Orlando Bloom, Dame Joan Collins and James McAvoy.  The winners of the 62nd London Evening Standard Theatre Awards are as follows:  Best Actor: Ralph Fiennes 'The Master Builder' (Old Vic) & 'Richard III' (Almeida)  Natasha Richardson Award for Best Actress: Billie Piper 'Yerma' (Young Vic)  Best Play With Hiscox, Official Arts Partner: 'Harry Potter and the Cursed Child' Co-written by Jack Thorne, JK Rowling & John Tiffany (Palace)  Best Musical Performance: Glenn Close 'Sunset Boulevard' (Coliseum)  Evening Standard Radio 2 Audience Award for Best Musical: 'Jesus Christ Superstar' Regent's Park Open Air Theatre  Milton Shulman Award for Best Director: John Malkovich 'Good Canary' (Rose Kingston)  Best Revival: 'No Man's Land' Wyndham's (dir Sean Mathias)  Best Design: Gareth Fry with Pete Malkin (sound design) 'The Encounter' (Edinburgh International Festival/Barbican)  Charles Wintour Award for Most Promising Playwright: Charlene James 'Cuttin' It' (Young Vic/Royal Court)  Emerging Talent Award in Partnership with Burberry: Tyrone Huntley 'Jesus Christ Superstar' (Regent's Park Open Air Theatre)  Beyond Theatre: Sir David Attenborough For his contribution to broadcasting  Editor's Award: Good Chance Theatre  Lebedev Award: Sir Kenneth Branagh For his Plays at the Garrick  Bang Showbiz