Young American woman Theresa Ahearn wants to tell Hillary Clinton why Donald Trump is a better presidential candidate.Dear Former Secretary Clinton, allow me to introduce myself. I am a 28-year-old woman. I consider myself to be well-educated, I work full-time, I m finishing up a master s programme and I m in the process of applying for PhD placement.I have always had an interest in politics and mass media from the time I learned how to turn on the television.That being said, I ve watched you run your campaign and I ve been left uninspired, so with barely any time left until election day, I figured I d give it a shot and try to get this note to you to explain why women like me are not voting for you and why there are a plethora of women voting for Trump.Ms Clinton, as you parade around the stage with rich, privileged women like Alicia Machado, real women like me are sleep-deprived, doing the balancing act between work, school, family, loans, and bills. We are sipping stale coffee, while deciding the give and take: how will I put petrol in my car when payday isn t until Friday and the warning light is on today?We are the working class women, the middle class, the lower class, the classes that aren t supposed to exist in America any more. We are not the Alicia Machados and Beyonc&eacute;s.The fact is, Hillary, I was with you. However, when I watched every single one of your speeches and rallies, all you did was talk about Donald Trump. You shone such a spotlight on his campaign that I was intrigued to go watch one of his rallies for myself.While listening to Mr Trump, I discovered that he speaks directly about the issues and how he plans to solve them. He has admitted when he is or was wrong and has evolved. This is a major difference between the way you run your rallies and he runs his.The news media does not always cover the Trump rallies and they should. They draw massive crowds and he welcomes everyone. Trump is not anti-women or anti-gay. He has the support of many different ethnic minorities who come in their thousands. It really is a movement.Former Secretary Clinton, women are for Trump because he is not a robot. When he is pushed, he pushes back, and that can be appreciated.Finally, can you clearly define - out loud and in plain language - how you plan to create jobs, own the email blunder, fix the issues with Obamacare, lower taxes, and strategise on securing the borders? Please don t tell us to go read it on your website; say it out loud, say it during your speeches, and maybe - just maybe - in the little time you have left, the women who are now with him will come back to you. The Independent