Pretoria - A former Tuks student is expected to receive millions of rand in damages from the police and the prosecuting authority after she was stabbed 22 times and then raped in her Sinoville townhouse by an attacker who was out on bail.The 26-year-old woman is claiming R10.6 million, arguing that the authorities failed to protect the public against a dangerous criminal by allowing him out on bail.The woman earlier told the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, that she would never have been raped had the State taken care not to free Samuel Msiza on bail in connection with earlier offences.The court earlier ordered that the State was liable for the woman&apos;s damages.Judge Bill Prinsloo was told that it was a miracle the woman was still alive. Msiza only stopped stabbing her when the blade of the knife broke off in her head.He was facing several charges, including for a number of rapes, when he raped her in October 2011. He was subsequently sentenced to life imprisonment as well as an additional 40 years.The woman was attacked two weeks before she was due to write her final exams. It was said that eight of the stab wounds could have been fatal.It emerged that Msiza had a long criminal history for which he was either not prosecuted or the State dragged its heels in finalising the matter.The allegations against him ranged from raping several children to having sex with a corpse of someone he had allegedly killed.For the latter attack he was due to stand trial in Mafikeng, but the State decided to withdraw the charges. Instead, he was granted bail by a magistrate, pending the other cases against him.The investigating officer in the other cases against him did not bother to go to court to tell the magistrate about the outstanding cases against him.The student was hosting a Bible study group on the night of the attack. She walked with her friends to the gate of the complex to see them out and returned to her unit. She was about to switch off the lights inside her house when a man jumped out from behind the television unit. He started stabbing her.She held her arms up to protect her face. She repeatedly shouted: &#x201C;Jesus, Jesus!&#x201D; He then raped her.She lost consciousness. When she woke up she managed to walk to her garden and call for help. Neighbours took her to hospital.The woman suffered knife wounds across her body and head. The court was told that she was extremely traumatised. She lost her virginity and suffered permanent physical and mental scars.She was unable to write her final exams and had to wait until the following year. One advocate told the court that in 35 years of practice, he had never seen such brutality meted out by a person on another.Judge Prinsloo reserved judgment regarding the amount of damages she would receive. [email&#160;protected] Pretoria News IOL News on Facebook IOL on Twitter