Johannesburg - The statistics surrounding unemployment in South Africa are startling. In fact, about a quarter of South Africans are unemployed. This is, in part, due to lack of skills and a limited pool of positions. With few jobs up for grabs, it’s important to ensure you have the basic skills needed. Not having the basic skills not only decreases your chances of getting a job, but can affect your confidence in the workplace. Here’s what you should brush up on to better your chances of getting employed and ensure you succeed in your new job... Willingness to learn - You don’t have to know everything, especially not all at once. But in every interview, or workplace situation, where you find yourself unsure of something, make it clear that you are willing to learn. You don’t always need to know the ins and outs of the job from the first day, but they do need to see you are keen and eager to learn new things so you can do your job as best you can. In an interview, if you can show you are up to the challenge, you up your chances of getting a foot in the door. Do say: That sounds interesting / I’m a fast learner / I’d love to learn how to do that, that sounds like a great new skill / I can’t wait. Don’t say: I can’t do that / I don’t know how / I don’t think I can. People skills - A lot of your time in the workplace is spent talking to and connecting with people. Understandably, people skills are essential in the job environment. If you’re shy or introverted, unfortunately you won’t have the option of keeping to yourself at work. And it will make interviews a nightmare for you! But, as they say, practice makes perfect. The more you talk to people, the easier it will become. You can practise by joining a club or taking a class in something that interests you. You will be forced to meet new people. And you may even learn a new skill in the process that could benefit your future career. Get to know your PC - Only 13 percent of South Africans have computers at home. Yet, to get a job, you absolutely have to know your way around a computer - the basics, at the very least. Digital training platform Educate24 offers an online course called Get to Know your Computer Inside and Out that covers all the basics, from choosing your computer and what different terms and phrases mean to troubleshooting and how to set up a home network. Courses like these are a great way to brush up your computer skills and give you the confidence you need before starting your dream job. Presentation skills - Knowing how to present information clearly and effectively is important in all jobs, regardless of your position. Not only formal presentations - in interviews, you will need to present your strengths and career experience clearly and confidently, and in the workplace, you will need to present information and updates. So, make sure you practise how to present clearly and confidently, even if it's just in front of your friends or family. * Information from Educate24. See www.educate24.co.za for more. THE STAR