Durban - There was chaos, including a shooting, at ward committee elections in eThekwini on Sunday. The poll has been postponed in 40 wards until next Sunday. Around 1 000 SAPS and metro police officers were deployed at 110 polling stations across the city amid chaotic scenes with the late delivery of voting material and equipment delaying proceedings. At the Dayal Road sport grounds in Clairwood, a resident shot himself in the leg with his own firearm during a scuffle. Police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said a riot had broken out between rival groups over the election process. A 31-year-old man withdrew his firearm and shot himself on the leg by mistake. He was taken to hospital. A case of discharging of a firearm in a public place was opened at Brighton Beach police station, said Zwane.Ten ward committee representatives for each of the municipality s 103 demarcated wards had been scheduled to be elected.Polling stations were supposed to open at 8am, but at some, including KwaMashu, KwaNyuswa and Inanda, elections did not take place. In Reservoir Hills, two busloads of voters blocked Mountbatten Drive with bricks and burning tyres after the election was postponed at the Siripat Road grounds. Ward councillor for Clare Estate and Reservoir Hills, Xolani Nala, said the protest was over equipment not being available to hold the elections. A public address system and the marquee had not arrived. Nala said when he explained to voters, they became agitated. He said the election would be held next Sunday.Police had to escort ward 25 councillor Mohamed Hoosen out of a voting station in Asherville, after he was held hostage. Satish Dhupelia, of the Sydenham Community Policing Forum, said people had arrived after the cut-off time, claiming their religious practices and transport problems were not taken into consideration. He said the election was heated and there was a lot of racial tension. The aggrieved parties should have addressed matters in a civilised manner. Things got really heated when I left. This is uncalled for in a democratic society that knows how the election process works. People with hidden agendas stirred up trouble, Dhupelia said. At the Bayview Community Hall, the station commander and two other police officials were allegedly attacked by an angry mob from ward 69. One of the officers was hit with a chair. KZN Cogta spokesman Lennox Mabaso and Independent Electoral Commission spokesman Mawethu Mosery were not available for comment. Municipal spokeswoman Tozi Mthethwa said: The disruptions were because of logistical challenges and interference from people who were not happy with the voting process. She confirmed that the election process would continue on Sunday with security beefed up at the 40 voting sites where the elections were still to be held.She said registration and verification was delayed at some stations because of the late delivery of infrastructure and voting papers. Other areas were marred by interruptions, but law enforcement agencies, municipal and government officials calmed the situation. Some wards experienced power outages and water shortages. Municipal officials worked around the clock to restore electricity and ensure water tankers were delivered to various sites, she said. According to the municipality, the committees were intended to strengthen community participation and give residents a direct platform to express their views on ward development. Daily News