Mahikeng North West premier Supra Mahumapelo must put the people of the province first and shelve a ridiculous plan to buy himself a lavish private jet using public money, the Democratic Alliance said on Sunday. In the province with the highest unemployment rate in South Africa, at a shocking 44.6 percent, it is simply unconscionable that Supra could put himself first and prepare to purchase a multi-million rand jet rather than spend money on creating jobs and opportunities, DA North West leader Joe McGluwa said.Mahumapelo should stop his delusions of aviation grandeur and face the realities of the North West. The people did not have jobs because his government had failed to grow the economy, failed to create jobs, and professionalised corruption with irregular spending increasing by R1-billion this year alone, now totalling R3-billion a year, McGluwa said. A choice to rather support the growth of Mahikeng airport would instead create a public benefit, allowing better connections to our province for business and investment, tourism, and trade. Our province needs the connections of a more available Mahikeng airport, not a luxury jet for ANC political elites. At a time when gold and platinum prices were at all time lows, the mining sector in the province was under strain and jobs were at risk. This was further reason for public money to rather be spent on creating new employment sectors, by incentivising and bringing investment to the province. Just like President Jacob Zuma, Supra clearly believes that public money is available for their own benefit, putting themselves first and South Africa last. The DA will not let Supra push through a luxury jet that will have no benefit for the people of the North West. We demand money is spent on creating jobs, not jets, McGluwa said.The Sunday Times reported earlier that Mahumapelo wanted to use the public purse to buy a jet for the exclusive use of himself and his provincial executive. The process to procure the aircraft started last month and was discussed at a provincial executive meeting on October 26.Although no price has been attached to Mahumapelo s dream jet, to buy and operate the aircraft could cost the provincial government millions, the newspaper reported.African News Agency (ANA)