London - A migrant who paddled across the Channel in an inflatable kayak is to be questioned by immigration officials over the alleged rape of a British charity worker in the Calais Jungle camp.The attack apparently common knowledge among volunteers is said to have happened around eight months ago. But the woman never reported it to French police because of fears that her allegation might stigmatise refugees.However one aid worker alerted UK detectives after learning that the man, who claims to be Iranian, had reached Dover.She told The Mail on Sunday the alleged assault was effectively covered up by colleagues because they felt it would undermine their efforts to help refugees. It became clear from discussions the woman hadn t reported it because of concern it would undermine all the great work that had been done to help refugees. But rape is rape and I was deeply uncomfortable with that. Home Office sources confirmed the man will be questioned about the rape, but stressed it was one of many factors being considered while examining his asylum claim. He is currently living in a segregated asylum seekers shelter, from which he is free to come and go. Detectives in the UK were alerted when the migrant, who is in his thirties and claims to be a software engineer, crossed the Channel on October 29. Last night police said the information has been shared with the relevant authorities but there was insufficient information to proceed with an investigation .It is thought to be the first time someone seeking asylum has attempted the 20-mile crossing in a kayak. The man, who spent many months at the camp in northern France, was spotted eight miles off the Kent coast by a Channel ferry. The UK Border Force took him to Dover where he was handed over to immigration officials. Claiming asylum, he has reportedly said he was persecuted in his homeland after converting to Christianity. It was at this point the aid worker became aware of his identity and contacted a detective. Meanwhile the alleged victim herself is understood to have told friends she still has no wish to come forward.The assault is said to have taken place against a backdrop of increasing tension at the sprawling camp, which was home to 10,000 migrants before its demolition last month. At the time it was the scene of nightly clashes between groups of refugees and French riot police.Last month, a 38-year-old Afghan interpreter working for a TV crew, was raped at knifepoint in the camp by three armed migrants.The aid worker said she heard about the alleged attack on the British woman from a friend in July. But I was never told anything about the alleged attacker, she added. I knew the woman, but I never raised it with her and she never confided in me. The camp was getting more dangerous. The majority of the men came from Afghanistan and weren t used to having Western women around them. The Home Office said last night that the man was currently staying in a segregated asylum centre while his case is being dealt with in line with the immigration rules .Mail On Sunday