Prince Harry has been invited to Antigua with his girlfriend Meghan Markle. The 32-year-old royal was singled out in front of 300 VIP guests by the country's Prime Minister Gaston Browne, who said the flame-haired hunk would be more than “welcome” to visit with the 'Suits' actress and they could even celebrate their future honeymoon on the island. According to the Daily Mirror newspaper, Browne told the crowd at a VIP bash at the official residence of the Queen's representative, the Governor General, on Monday night (21.11.16): “I believe we are expecting a new princess soon. “I want you to know that you are very welcome to come on your honeymoon here.” Harry remained silent as Browne, added: “Whatever is done here, stays here. So do not worry.” Organisers of the Colours of Charity event were told not to talk about the 'Suits' actress. Halo Foundation worker, Cuthbert Forbes, who helped put on the event, said: “We were told not to talk about it. “It came up at an organising committee meeting when we were thinking about what we could talk to him about and one of the core members of the committee said we shouldn't talk about his girlfriend because it is personal.” It comes following Harry's statement saying he was “disappointed” he hasn't been able to protect Meghan from the online trolls she has faced since the couple's romance was made public. The statement released by Kensington Palace read: “His girlfriend, Meghan Markle, has been subject to a wave of abuse and harassment. Some of this has been very public ... the outright sexism and racism of social media trolls and web article comments. “Prince Harry is worried about Ms Markle's safety and is deeply disappointed that he has not been able to protect her. It is not right that a few months into a relationship with him that Ms Markle should be subjected to such a storm. He knows commentators will say this is 'the price she has to pay' and that 'this is all part of the game'. He strongly disagrees. This is not a game - it is her life and his.” Bang Showbiz