Durban - The Durban CBD was on a knife edge after a Congolese national was shot dead, allegedly by police, in the Albert Park precinct on Thursday evening. Police had brought an alleged cellphone thief to Maud Mfusi (St Georges) Street to identify the man he claimed to have sold the phone to. The alleged thief had told the police the buyer was Daniel Mazambi, 37, who was subsequently shot during a scuffle with police. Mazambi, a barber who had been living in Durban for the past 10 years after leaving the DRC, died from a single bullet wound after an argument with police. His fellow countryman, Daniel Dunia, said Mazambi was arrested on suspicion of buying a stolen cellphone. The police arrested him and put him in the van. They stopped around the corner to search him and found money and car keys, he said. He was apparently shot when an argument ensued and died en route to hospital. An angry group of men descended on the Durban Central police station to demand answers from the police, who advised them to report the matter to the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) . The mood became more hostile when the police allegedly used pepper spray on the group. Dunia said they were planning a march against police brutality and would open a case with Ipid.Mazambi worked at a salon owned by his brother. He was 37 and married with no children. Police spokeswoman Captain Nqobile Gwala said detectives investigating an attempted common robbery came under attack from a group of men. Yesterday at about 5.30pm, detectives from Durban Central were investigating a robbery case with regards to the cellphone that was sold in St Andrews (now Diakonia Avenue). When they went there with the suspect to point out where he sold the phone, a group of people attacked the two police officers, said Gwala. She said Mazambi was hit in the stomach when a shot went off during the scuffle. The (police) members had to leave the area as it was volatile and a group of people then followed the SAPS members to Durban central SAPS. Daily News