If you're planning a romantic getaway this summer to add some kink to your end-year break then these sexy essentials should be packed into your luggage. These pleasurable items will guarantee some discreet yet mind-blowing holiday enjoyment! Massage candle  Flickering Massage candle from Lelo is perfect for setting the mood. Credit: Supplied If you're looking for a product to aid in self-massage for you or your partner then you are going to need a good massage oil. This unique Flickering Massage candle from Lelo is as discreet as ever and is just perfect for setting the mood. Not only just a crackling, aroma-filled candle - it also doubles up as massage oil. It's made from all-natural soy wax, shea butter and apricot kernel oil, and once it starts burning the lightly scented wax melts into an exquisite pool of luxurious massage oil. Lelo smart wand  It can be passed off as a relaxation aid that sneakily stimulates your sensual areas too! Credit: Supplied Having a body massage in the comfort of your hotel room is an experience second to none, but erotic massage, on the other hand, can be just what you need to boost sexual arousal between yourself and your partner. READ: Test your masturbation IQ - QUIZ A great recommendation for taking your self-massage to the next level would be to invest in the Lelo Smart Wand. It's more than a sex toy. It's a premium grade personal massager that is intended for full body use. Rocks-Off Ammunition R0-80mm  The smaller and quieter the toy, the better the fun! Credit: Supplied  Certain sex toys can be great travel companions because of their ability to be powerful but also barely discernible. So before you start shopping remember that larger toys are often a hassle to pack, and there is always the possibility of embarrassment should it be discovered during your trip. An affordably priced bullet like the Rocks-Off Ammunition R0-80mm is always a great travel buddy because of its compact size and lightweight design. Held entirely in the palm of our hand, it can be disguised at all times and wouldn't cause too much awkwardness should it happen to fall out of your bag. Best of all, it only needs one battery to keep it powered, so there is no time wasted waiting to charge it up. Lubricant  Specially formulated for women to use as a personal lubricant and a skin moisturiser. Credit: Supplied It's no secret that a lack of lubrication can contribute to little or no orgasms during sex. The stress, change in climate and holiday diet can affect your body's natural lubrication system - and this can lead to some painful and unpleasant situations. READ: The ultimate sex bucket list Be sure to include a good old bottle of lubricant in your toiletry bag. Products like Pjur Woman Aqua are a great choice because they are lightweight, non-greasy and leave your skin feeling refreshed. This product is also water based so it's great to use in conjunction with all latex products. For more information please click here