DURBAN: EFF leader Julius Malema made no bones that he believed he had done  nothing wrong and the charges levelled against him were simply an attempt by President Jacob Zuma to eliminate  political opposition. Addressing supporters after briefly appearing in the Newcastle Magistrate’s Court on two charges of violating the Riotous Assemblies Act of 1956 yesterday, Malema said whites were not entitled to own any land in South Africa and that, for now, he was not calling for the slaughter of whites. Malema claimed that British monarch Queen Elizabeth held title deeds to property in South Africa and that the ANC-led government was too afraid to ask for them back. Earlier in court, Malema’s lawyer, Tumi Mokwena, asked for the matter to be postponed as he would seek to have  the apartheid-era legislation declared unconstitutional. Before Malema’s arrival, a group of about 400 EFF supporters sang and danced outside the courtroom. Malema accused the government of having no clear-cut plans to address the plight of poor blacks. “This country is still in the hands of the colonial masters. This country is still in the hands of white people. This country is controlled from London. There are still pieces of land, here in KwaZulu-Natal, Eastern Cape and rural provinces, whose title deed is still owned by Queen Elizabeth. “The ANC that you are wearing the T-shirts of today does not know how to take the title deed from the Queen in London,” he said. Malema said he would be scared to go to prison for corruption, but he would not be scared to go to prison in the fight for land. “The white man has been too comfortable for too long. We are here unashamedly to disturb the white man’s peace because we have not known peace. We don’t know what peace looks like. "They (white people) have been swimming in a pool of privilege. They have been enjoying themselves because they always owned our land,” he said, citing "a black genocide" by white people for land. “They found peaceful Africans here. They killed them. They slaughtered them like animals. We are not calling for the slaughtering of white people, at least for now. "What we are calling for is the peaceful occupation of the land, and we don’t owe anyone an apology for that.” He said that the charges against him had been brought by the ANC on behalf of white people. The case was postponed to December 7, but Malema would not be required to appear if an application is lodged with the high court.