Food and beer: it’s a marriage made in heaven. Try this recipe then crack open a Carver’s Weiss:  Mealie meal sosatie pizza For the pizza base Ingredients 1 cup mealie meal ¾ cup cake flour1 teaspoon baking powder 1 teaspoon chopped garlic 1 pinch sea salt 1 tablespoon chopped basil 1 jumbo egg½ cup plain yoghurt ¼ cup cold water Method Mix the egg, water and yoghurt together, and mix in the dry ingredients. Divide the pizza batter in two and place in two greased oven-proof pans. Bake at 180º for 15 minutes.  For the toppings 3 spoons tomato pastel ½ cup grated Cheddar cheesel ½ cup grated Mozzarella cheese 5 sliced Peppadews 5 sundried tomatoes Gooseberries Chutney marinated pork sosatie pulled off the kebab stick Method Cut 200g pork loin into cubes and skewer on bamboo sticks. Marinate the sosaties in a cup of chutney, two spoons of olive oil, salt and a spoon of balsamic vinegar. Grill the sosaties until done on a braai. Pull the meat of the skewer and set aside. Once the pizza base has baked, spoon the tomato paste on top of the base and top the pizza with the rest of the ingredients. Bake in the oven until the cheese has melted. Serve hot.   Russian sausage, sticky bbq wings, naartjie, roast beetroot and mixed greens Ingredients 1/2 cup apple cider vinegar 1/2 cup Oyster sauce 1 cup Tomato Sauce 1/2 cup water 1/4 cup finely chopped onion 2 tablespoons chopped garlic 2 tablespoons olive oil 2 tablespoons nutmeg 2 tablespoons ground coriander 2 tablespoons English mustard 4 tablespoons brown sugar 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 1 tablespoon paprika 2 teaspoons dried oregano 2 teaspoons dried thyme 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground black pepper 2kg chicken wings 4 Russian sausages 100g baby corn 100g baby beetroot Extra Virgin Olive oil Balsamic vinegar  Method In a pan saute the onions in the oil until slightly browned. Add the garlic and saute for a few more seconds before adding the rest of the liquid ingredients (except the vinegar and Worcestershire sauce) and simmering until reduced Add the sugar and the rest of the spices and dry ingredients. Lastly add the vinegar and Worcestershire sauce and set the sauce aside to cool. Once cooled, marinate your chicken wings in the sauce for an hour before grilling them in the oven at 220 degrees Celsius for 15 minutes. Cut little slots into the top of 4 russian sausages. Place the sausages between the wings in the oven tray, add halved baby beetroots and baby corn in the oven pan with the wings, place in the oven for another 15 minutes. Serve on a bed of endive leaves and variety of multi-coloured lettuce and hers. Drizzle with balsamic and olive oil. Serve hot.   Maas Beef Cheeks, chakalaka, avo, waffles For the Beef Cheeks Ingredients 4 Beef Cheeks (about 1kg) 2 chopped onions 1 large carrot 1 spoon chopped garlic 2 pinches of thyme 4 pinches of rosemary 5 star anise pods 4 cloves 3 Bay leaves 50g sticky treacle sugar 100g cake flour 500ml water 500ml Maas/ Amasi Coarse sea salt Freshly ground black pepper 2 Tbsp olive oil 100g butter (not margarine) 750ml liquid beef stock  Method Place the beef, garlic, bay leaves, cloves, star anise, thyme, rosemary, chopped carrot, onion, water and maas in a bowl or container. Seal and refrigerate for 24 hours. Preheat your oven to 180°C Mix the flour with some salt and pepper and place it spread out on a tray or in a large bowl. Remove the beef cheeks from the marinate and pat them dry with paper towel and then drag them through the seasoned flour until coated. Shake to remove any excess flour. Set the marinade aside (do not throw it away!) Heat a large, thick based casserole dish or deep oven proof pan on the stove, add the butter and oil. Fry the beef cheeks two at a time in the pan until brown. Remove, set aside. Pour the marinade you set aside earlier on into the hot pan and add your beef stock. Allow to simmer, add your cheeks and cover with a lid. Keep the lid slightly ajar and tilted so as to allow air to escape. Place the pan in the oven (or in a casserole dish in the oven) and cook for 4-5 hours. Check on it every hour to make sure the liquid has not evaporated too much. If it has, add some water. Remove the dish from the oven and using a slotted spoon, carefully lift the cheeks out of the dish. They may fall apart, be careful. Strain the left over sauce from the casserole dish with a sieve and pour into a clean pan. Add the sugar. Place on the stove, heat at medium and allow to reduce till thick. Whisk in some butter to give it shine. Season and pour over the braised cheeks.  For the chakalaka Ingredients 125ml olive oil 2 red onions, finely chopped 4 large Roma tomatoes, peeled and chopped 1 red pepper 1 green pepper 1 tin red kidney beans 3 large carrots, peeled and cut in thick sticks (brunoise) 1 cup raw sweet corn kernels 2 teaspoons fine chopped red chillies 1 teaspoon smoked paprika 1 teaspoon good quality masala 1/2 teaspoon chopped garlic 1/2 teaspoon ground coriander spice Salt and pepper (to taste) Method 1. Heat a large frying pan and place the butter in it, once the butter has melted add the onions and saute them until they become translucent 2. Add all the other ingredients except the baked beans and cook over a low heat for about 15 minutes before adding the baked beans. 3. Stir occasionally and cook for a further 15 minutes until thick but still moist.  For the Waffles Ingredients 2 1/2 cups flour 2 1/2 tablespoons baking powder 1 teaspoon salt 1 heaped tablespoon sugar 4 large eggs, separated 1 cup butter, melted 4 cups milk  Method Separate the egg yolks from the egg whites and whip the egg whites until stiff. In a separate bowl mix all the dry ingredients together Mix the egg yolks, milk and melted butter together until well combined and then fold the flour into the wet ingredients. Whisk rapidly until all lumps are gone. If still lumpy, strain the mixture though a wire sieve. Fold the whipped egg whites into the mixture now. Use the figure of 8 folding method as you don't want to knock the air out the egg whites. Once well combined allow the mixture to rest for about 15 to 30 minutes before using it in your waffle pan.  Assemble your dish by placing your beef cheeks on the waffle followed by your avocado and watercress. Serve the chakalaka on the side with you meal. Share with friends!