Johannesburg - University of the Witwatersrand (Wits) vice-chancellor and principal Adam Habib has appointed Nomboniso Gasa to investigate whether or not there were any lapses on the part of the university's structures and officials in their responses to a recent rape complaint. “The rape complaint at the Wits Junction Residence has made national headlines in the last few days. There have been many allegations and counter allegations made in the media and particularly on social media,” Habib said on Saturday. It had also been suggested that university structures and managers did not respond timeously and sensitively to the complainant's concerns. The university had already released a statement informing the university community and the broader public that the matter was under investigation. “Yesterday [On Friday], I had a lengthy conversation with the complainant and her mother to hear about the incident and how the university's official structures responded to her complaint. I particularly enquired about her experience of the office of residence life, student affairs, and the gender equity office regarding her complaint. “ She explained that some individuals engaged with her more effectively than others, and while some were extremely helpful and sensitive to her needs, others had not been equally responsive to her situation. This suggests that it may be that particular processes and procedures of the university have not been fully complied with by certain individuals in these circumstances,” Habib said. The complainant further indicated that she was thankful for the outpouring of support from students, activists, and others. She particularly felt that a considered conversation about issues related to rape, sexual harassment, and gender-based harm in residences was urgently needed in all universities and in society as a whole. However, she also felt that the heated debate had been emotionally draining especially when matters were deliberately misrepresented in the mainstream and social media. The complainant had confirmed that she was prepared for the university to fully investigate the incident of October 30. This investigation would be instituted immediately and would be concluded timeously. A time line would be communicated to the university community early next week. “In addition, I have appointed Ms Nomboniso Gasa to investigate whether or not there were any lapses on the part of the university's structures and officials in their responses to the rape complaint. Ms Gasa is well-known for her work in the areas of gender, politics, and culture, and she has agreed to conduct an independent investigation into the matter on the university's behalf,” he said. Gasa's remit was to: - Investigate the university's response and management of the matter and the processes followed. She would also assess the role played by the office of residence life, student affairs, the gender equity office, and other relevant Wits structures; - Investigate whether certain staff members of the university may have conducted themselves in a manner which did not comply with the university's policies and was inconsistent with the university's ethos; - Recommend any action that should be undertaken to ensure that the university's structures were responsive to the needs and concerns of victims of rape, sexual harassment, and gender-based harm; and - Advise on any measures not yet in place which could better enable the university to hold considered conversations around these critical issues while remaining mindful of the personal circumstances of the parties involved. Gasa would provide a report to Habib personally within the next 72 hours. “I request all students and staff to co-operate with Ms Gasa in respect of this investigation, to make themselves available and to provide any information that she may require to properly conduct this investigation. Staff and students are reminded not to attempt to communicate with the parties involved during this time and to respect their privacy. “I recognise that this is a matter of national concern and that it will be the subject of debate and deliberation in the social and mainstream media. However, I urge all people who are reporting on this matter or engaging with it on social media to do so in a way that is truthful, measured, and engaged, and in a way that does not contribute to the distress of the complainant and her family. We must be protective and sensitive of her personal circumstances at all times. I will report on the outcome of this investigation early next week,” Habib said. African News Agency