THE lives of 43 children will be changed as they undergo corrective surgeries, as part of the Smile Foundation s Smile Week initiative. The surgeries will help children who suffer from treatable facial anomalies, such as cleft lip and palate, burns, Moebius syndrome (facial paralysis) and other conditions.A massive 43 paediatric surgeries are scheduled at Tygerberg Academic Hospital. Smile Foundation s national surgical initiative, Smile Week, has grown beyond just providing reconstructive surgery for facial anomalies. It also provides specialised surgical interventions for a range of conditions affecting other areas of the body.The initiative is sponsored by the Vodacom Foundation. One of the benefactors of the surgeries this week is eight-month-old Esinalo Mafani from Uitenhage. He will undergo scaphocephaly surgery. The specialised operation will take between six and seven hours to complete, and will involve remodelling Esinalo s skull, in order for his brain to have space to develop normally.Eight-year-old Rooney Tieties, who was born with a bilateral facial cleft, will also undergo surgery. He was part of the very first Smile Week in 2009, during which his primary reconstructive surgery took place. He returns for surgery to correct his eyebrows and for other minor procedures to his face, which will further enhance his confidence, and stand him in good stead to continue his remarkable recovery. Smile Foundation operations director Moira Gerszt said while there are the same number of children undergoing surgery compared to the first group of recipients in 2009, four additional surgeons will be supporting Dr Alexander Zuhlke. These include Dr Frank Graewe, who is joining the team to assist with Esinalo s cranial surgery, and Dr Dirk van der Spuy, a specialist in hand surgery, who will be tackling eight surgeries to correct congenital hand conditions on Friday. Tygerberg Academic Hospital has a massive reach and there are increasing numbers of children in need of reconstructive surgery. As a result, a significant number of children will benefit from this Smile Week. There is also a diverse range of surgeries taking place this week. Once again, we are grateful to Tygerberg Academic Hospital, its department of plastic and reconstructive surgery and all the surgeons, nursing staff and anaesthetists involved in giving of their time and expertise to help these children. For more information contact Smile Foundation on www.smilefoundation.co.za or 086&nbsp;127&nbsp;6453. A donation of R10 can be made by SMS to Smile on 38413.