Cape Town - Two police officers were killed in Cape Town at the weekend, bringing to six the number of officers shot in less than two weeks.Police spokesman Andre Traut said Thanduxolo Ndiki, 30, and Mabhuti Nqwaba, 33 were shot in separate incidents over the weekend.The Department of Community Safety has offered a R100 000 reward for information that will result in the arrest and conviction of those involved in the murder of police officers.Provincial police commissioner Lieutenant-General Khombinkosi Jula said attacks on officers occurred more around the festive season, but said they would not be deterred in combating crime.Nqwaba was off-duty when he was shot and killed during an attempted hijacking in Kraaifontein as he was dropping off a relative at about 1am on Saturday. He was approached by three unknown suspects who made an attempt to rob him. No one has been arrested as yet, Traut said.About two hours later, Ndiki was found lying on the pavement in Delft.He was wounded in the shoulder and later died in hospital. His vehicle was recovered in Muizenberg on Sunday afternoon.Their murders followed that of police officer Amanda Ladlokova who was shot and killed on Tuesday night while on duty in Philippi East. Her colleague was wounded.On Friday, Ashwin Kennedy was charged with murder and attempted murder in the Athlone Magistrate s Court after he allegedly ambushed two officers for their firearms. Jula said: Out of three incidents the motive was to hijack members of their vehicles. In Philippi they just wanted firearms, it is pure criminality. These incidents make us stronger to take them head on. Our morale is not affected and we are beefing up. We are not going to back down. Jula said the Hawks will give the attacks special attention . We will ensure our members did not die in vain and ensure the perpetrators are brought to book. These are also indications that there are still certain areas that need attention and we hope the community will work with us, because they (officers) come under fire when responding, he said.Other attacks on officers included Captain Etienne Conradie who was wounded while on a search operation in Manenberg last week, and a sergeant wounded in the leg on Sunday when responding to an altercation in the same area. Hawks head Mthandazo Ntlemeza said they were deeply disturbed by the brutal murder of three police officers . These unwarranted attacks also left three other officers wounded. We shall continue to relentlessly pursue all responsible in carrying out the directorate s mandate of ensuring that all people are and feel safe in the country. An attack on a police officer is an attack on the state. Community safety MEC Dan Plato said a reward of R100 000 was offered for anyone with information that will result in the arrest and conviction of those involved. He condemned the killings and said the reward should be a strong warning to those who target police officers. There are now an extra 100 000 reasons why you will not get away with it, he said.* Anyone with information can call their nearest police station, Crime Stop 0860010111 or SMS Crime Line 32211.[email&#160;protected]Cape Argus