It was wham bam thank Sam as the SA Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee opted for the status quo at its Quadrennial General Meeting in Johannesburg Saturday. Incumbent president Gideon Sam and his deputy Hajera Kajee were re-elected during the elections. Sam will serve a third and final term as head of the country's Olympic body until 2020. He parried a challenge from Kajee, who had to settle for the second top position while Barry Hendricks was elected vice-president to unseat Les Williams. Hendricks, Gauteng Sports Confederation president is one of two new members on the board along with Debbie Alexander. There was place for Williams on the board earning a place along with SA Rugby Union president Mark Alexander, Merril Williams and Kobus Marais of of the SA Sports Association for the Physically Disabled (SASAPD). Hendricks and Marais were among the nominees that were initially disqualified from standing as the Sascoc constitution stated that candidates had to be members of national federations a special executive meeting overruled the decision. Sam said the new board would be looking at restructuring the management structure of Sascoc which could see the removal of the chief executive position. “I want the board to sit down and look at how we are doing things and we have to say to ourselves, we don’t need that and we need that because money is scarce,” Sam said. “We will look at that (the position of CEO and other positions) but you don’t just fire people because you will end up at the CCMA. “You have to look at how you restructure so that you can say to people this is what it will look like and you can fit yourself in there and if you don’t like it there is not much you can do now.” Serving his third term as Sascoc president since he first defeated Moss Mashishi in 2008, Sam said the Olympic body needed to look at introducing new blood into the organisation. “After eight years of running the show, from Beijing to now, we have to change,” Sam said. “The board will be going for a two-day workshop where they will devise a strategy and come back and instruct management of what has to happen. We have to restructure the way we do things and how we want to go about it. “The board will deliver these task in March 2017 at the General Meeting and map a way forward to improve every aspect of the organisation from marketing, and public relations to to finance systems of the company.” Pointing at the newly elected board and the other members of the council he said there was a lack of younger administrators making it through the ranks. “People are not coming through and if you look at the members and the age group, there are no youngsters,” Sam said. “It is not my fault but you have to look at how we do this and do it properly and something we need to correct.” Meanwhile, the Commonwealth Games Federation (CGF) sent out a release about the nearing deadline for South Africa to meet certain conditions before November 30 in order not to lose the hosting rights for the Commonwealth Games in 2022. South African recently sent a delegation to London to meet with CGF after the country failed to give financial guarantees and not appointing an Organising Committee since winning the bid in Auckland in September 2015. “Once the CGF receives from Durban its final submissions against these outstanding matters on or before 30 November,” the CGF said in a statement. “The CGF will evaluate the submissions thoroughly and then make a final recommendation to the CGF Executive Board on Durban's ability to host the Games in accordance with its original bid and the conditions of the award. “This process may take up to six weeks and take us into the New Year given the importance of the matter.” Independent Media