Cape Town - The last two seasons have seen Contiki Holidays consistently adding to and refining its product offering across all regions. Asia is no exception, and with its 2017 Asia launch the youth travel leader has fleshed out its offering with five entirely new trips to wow travellers with life changing travel experiences. Whether customers are looking to immerse themselves in India, discover the beauty of Northern Thailand or carving through powder in Hakuba, Japan, Contiki has an impressive new itinerary to suit.  Cambodia & Laos Uncovered Following Contiki's 'Discoverer' travel style designed to show travellers as many amazing destinations as possible, this new itinerary will visit Luang Prabang, Vang Vieng, Vinetiane, Phnom Penh and Siem Reap over nine action packed days. With internal flights, licenced local guides AND a Contiki Trip Manager throughout and the opportunity to see wonder of the world Angkor Watt Temple at dawn, this new trip is a perfect for those wanting the experiences of extended travelling in a trip that fits in your vacation time.  Bangkok to Singapore Adventure Also a 'Discoverer' itinerary, this new trip will take in Bangkok, Krabi, Langkawi, Penang, Kuala Lumpur and Singapore over 14 days of authentic local experiences and amazing special stays, private air conditioned coaches and the best included experiences. Special overnight stays include a night train from Bangkok to Khao Sok, a Thai jungle treehouse hotel and a floating lake raft.  Northern Thai Highlights Following Contiki's 'In Depth Explorer' style, designed to get travellers living like locals in amazing cultural hotspots, this new trip will journey through northern Thailand visiting Chiang Mai, Kanchanburi, Ayutthaya and Bangkok. Amazing included experiences include a cruise on a traditional long tail boat, guided bike tour of Ayutthaya, guided tour of Ayutthaya and trip on the River Kwai. Optional extras to be enjoyed are a trip to an Elephant sanctuary, Thai cooking class and Pai hot springs.  Japan - City to Slopes The 'Winter & Ski' style sibling of last year's hugely popular Japan Unrivalled itinerary, City to Slopes visits Osaka, Kyoto, Tokyo and finally the Hakuba ski fields. Spanning 12 days and including private, comfortable coach travel and a three-day lift pass, City to Slopes encompasses three iconic Japanese cities, with the final few days spent skiing in the stunning Hakuba mountain resort area. Optional experiences include a sushi making class, Onsen spa experience and Izakaya 'Japanese Tapas' dinner.  Eternal India Although the Eternal India trip was announced earlier this year the 2017 brochure is the first to include it. The Eternal India trip spans 12 days; follows Contiki's 'In-Depth Explorer' style and visits Delhi, Agra, Ranthambore, Jaipur, Udaipur, Mumbai and Goa. The itinerary includes the Taj Mahal, Agra Fort, Delhi old town and Jama Mosque, and optional experiences like a visit to the famous Cricket ground the Maiden Oval, Chapati making lessons and a Rickshaw ride in Delhi are also available. ”Asia is such a key destination for young people looking for an adventure, so as a youth focused brand we need an Asia product that delivers an adventurous, immersive and culturally authentic experience,” said Kelly Jackson, General Manager for Contiki South Africa. “We've pulled out all the stops for Contiki Asia 2017, adding five new trips and including a host of special stays, No Regrets Experiences and Me Time Optionals which are unparalleled in terms of diversity and memorability.” Adapted from a press release for IOL * For more information on Contiki's trips throughout Europe, USA, Canada, Asia and Latin America check out contiki.com.