 Cape Town - A former prosecutor wept as he clasped his hands as if in prayer, and pleaded with a police captain to withdraw criminal charges against him, a court in Cape Town heard on Monday. Captain Johnny Wolmarans said he informed the prosecutor that he did not have the right to withdraw the charges. He testified at the trial of Jonas Phosoko, 42, formerly a prosecutor in the Bellville District Court in Cape Town, who faces one charge of corruption, two of theft and two of defeating the ends of justice. With him in the dock is Mlahleni Mgingi, who faces one charge of corruption, one of theft and one of defeating the ends of justice. Both have pleaded not guilty in the Bellville Specialised Commercial Crime Court, before magistrate Sabrina Sonnenberg. According to the charge sheet, Mgingi was arrested for alleged possession of 29kg of dagga. The dagga case was postponed a number of times in the Bellville District Court, and was finally scheduled for trial. Prosecutor Derek Vogel alleges that Phosoko and Mgingi met a number of times in the Nyanga township, and had regular cellphone contact with each other. It was alleged that Mgingi paid Phosoko a R1 800 bribe to steal and destroy the docket pertaining to the dagga case. According to the charge sheet, the dagga case had been assigned to prosecutor CL Williams, who shared an office with a colleague. Phosoko was given access to Williams' office on the day the dagga case was to start, on the understanding that he was searching for another docket. Phosoko was apparently in the office alone and, when Williams returned, the dagga docket was missing. Phosoko allegedly denied any knowledge of it, and the missing docket eventually caused the withdrawal of the case. The captain said he was called to the senior prosecutor's office, in connection with the dagga docket that was missing from one court and was later found in another. Phosoko was present in the senior prosecutor's office, and it was alleged that Phosoko had informed Mgingi that he could make dockets disappear. The captain said he introduced himself to Phosoko, and informed him that he was investigating a charge against him. “In my presence, Phosoko pleaded with the senior prosecutor not to proceed with the matter, and started crying,” the captain said. He said he arrested Phosoko, and obtained a warrant to search Phosoko's home. When he informed Phosoko, in a holding cell, of his plan to search his home, Phosoko again asked him to withdraw the case, as he could not be without work. At Phosoko's home, they found a carton, and inside it they found documents and copies of dockets, as well as an A4-size envelope. Inside the envelope was a police docket folded to fit into the envelope. The captain told the court: “The docket involved a drunken driving case from Delft, that had been sent to the Bellville court. “Phosoko explained that he often took dockets home to work on, and I said it was strange that he had this one because it was already November, and the docket was dated January. “I told Phosoko that a charge of defeating the ends of justice, pertaining to this particular docket, would be added to the charges”. The case continues on February 10. African News Agency