Durban - With just days to go before the end of matric exams, law enforcement agencies have warned pupils against alcohol-fuelled beach parties.The Department of Transport, Community Safety and Liaison has promised a crackdown on minibus taxi operators ferrying pupils with alcohol to beaches. The class of 2016 will officially write their final examination on Tuesday afternoon when design pupils sit for their final paper. A large majority of KwaZulu-Natal pupils will finish their exams on Friday when they write English paper three, while many others are set to conclude on Monday with Afrikaans paper three. The end-of-school terms and the end of matric exams have become an especially problematic time for police, social development and education officials.At the end of the first term this year at least four KwaZulu-Natal pupils died and scores had to be taken to hospital after taking the toxic ecstasy-based drug, Mercedes. And two years ago on a Richards Bay beach, three partying matric pupils were stabbed to death during a brawl after their end-of-year exams. More than 18 others were wounded and hospitalised. Education MEC Mthandeni Dlungwane has warned pupils to steer clear of undesirable partying that has in the past come with tragic consequences. He flagged drug and alcohol abuse, and reckless sex, as being of particular concern. The Department of Education in KwaZulu-Natal warns all learners and asks them to refrain from such practices. It does not make sense for a learner to spend 12 years in the system only to lose his/her life after writing the final paper, thus cutting his/her future short. Finishing Grade 12 is not the destination, but it should signal the beginning of a brighter future for any learner. We also urge parents to be vigilant and ensure that they monitor their children s whereabouts during this time, Dlungwane said.Metro police spokesman Sibonelo Mchunu said their operational plan was in place, but referred queries to the Department of Community Safety. Department spokesman Kwanele Ncalane said the move to curb matric parties was part of the province s festive season plan. We do not send warnings, we have a plan, said Ncalane. We will be monitoring minibus taxis transporting pupils to the beach. We will check for overloads, dangerous weapons and if they are drinking, we will arrest them and impound the vehicles, he said. Ncalane said there would be increased police visibility at roads leading to major beaches. We are encouraging parents to play an active role in curbing this practice. These parties have negative impacts on the kids. This behaviour has the potential to disrupt the future of our children and we also want to make sure other visitors in the area are safe, he said. @SihleSaysDaily News