Cape Town - Following the success of SA's Best Roads To Drive campaign, Avis Rent a Car has continued to tap into SA’s hidden treasures, by selecting four best holiday roads. Developed with the holiday season in mind, the best holiday roads will see millions experience unforgettable sightings, while making holiday memories that will last a lifetime. Carefully selected, each holiday road brings something unique.  While witnessing Mother Nature's miracles and cruising the open roads will mesmerise drivers and passengers, the breath-taking scenery and wildlife provide another reason to be proudly South African. “The best holiday roads are an early holiday gift from Avis to our customers,” says Rainer Gottschick, Chief Executive of Avis Rent a Car southern Africa. “Selected on the premise that the journey is more exciting than the destination, these roads come with the ever changing scenery, set to ignite the explorer gene in us all.” Presented by TV and radio personality, Sasha Martinengo through a YouTube series, the South Africa's Best Roads To Drive campaign encompasses the identification of the top four holiday roads. While driving each route and narrating key information, Martinengo appraises each road, highlighting the beauty, history and heritage of the road as well as the driving experience.   This season's top four best holiday roads include driving through the Pafuri Camp in the Kruger National Park in Mpumalanga, the mountainous Swartberg pass to the hidden valley named 'Die Hel' in Gamkaskloof and the charming hamlet of Prince Albert in the Western Cape; a drive through Namaqualand when the dry, arid land is covered with a colourful blanket of wild flowers. In addition, the road through Hermanus in the Western Cape where one may spot the elusive Southern Right Whale or visit Dryer Island along the way, home to one of the highest concentration of Great Whites Sharks in the world. Adapted from a press release for IOL * Explore South Africa's Best Roads To Drive on Avis' Facebook, Twitter and Instagram pages using the hashtag #SABestRoads or visit www.avisbestroads.co.za