Cape Town - The Cape Cobras have finally won a cricket match! It has been a long, hard road to reach this point, but the Cobras and coach Paul Adams would’ve been able to crack a smile at Newlands on Friday night as they ended a seven-match winless streak in beating the Warriors by 12 runs to register their first victory of the 2016-17 season. The first round of the Sunfoil Series was marred by off-field issues between Adams and some of the players, which eventually led to a CCMA process. The Cobras proceeded to lose three and draw two games, and went down in their first two T20 Challenge matches as well. They were in a winning position against the Titans in Paarl on Wednesday, but a batting blitz by Albie Morkel saw the visitors snatch an unlikely victory. But on Friday night at a chilly Newlands, there were no such late meltdowns as the Cobras put together their most efficient performance of the season. There was some drama before the toss, though, as regular captain Justin Ontong was left out to make way for fit-again Wayne Parnell. Independent Media understands that Ontong decided to step aside as he didn’t make significant contributions in the first two matches, where he scored one and five against the Knights and Titans respectively – although he came in to bat right at the death in the latter game. But it was still a big call by coach Adams, as the only remaining experienced batsmen were Richard Levi and Kieron Pollard, who also took over the captaincy. Parnell, though, was again utilised as an opener like he was last season, and the gamble paid off once more as he struck 61 off just 51 balls (8x4). But the left-hander didn’t get enough of the strike as he was only dismissed in the final over, and that left the Cobras about 10 to 15 runs short of what they would’ve hoped for as they had reached 123/3 in 15 overs. Parnell had just gone to his third T20 half-century – having driven the ball straight particularly well – and West Indian star Pollard was in full flow on an unbeaten 41 after opener Richard Levi (8), No 3 Keegan Petersen (12) and Jason Smith (8) couldn’t get going. But the late-innings surge never quite materialised as an outstanding yorker by Sisanda Magala shattered Pollard’s stumps for an entertaining 50 off 27 balls (2x4, 4x6), and the Cobras scored just 40 runs off their last five overs, losing five wickets in the process. Still, 163/8 was a good total, and the Warriors would have a tough time in chasing 164 to win under lights at Newlands. The Eastern Cape outfit needed one of their top four batsmen to go big, and ideally former Proteas left-hander Colin Ingram, but they were unable to maintain their early momentum. Openers Jon-Jon Smuts and Somila Seyibokwe made a strong start in compiling 31 within the first four overs, but Seyibokwe was the first to go as he succumbed to a fiery delivery from Rory Kleinveldt to be bowled for 20. Left-arm spinner George Linde was a surprise introduction during the powerplay, but the move worked for captain Pollard as Linde got rid of Smuts with his first ball, which was almost yorker-length to clean-bowl the right-hander for 10. Ingram and Colin Ackermann were the mainstays and needed to go deep if the Warriors had to stand any chance, but it wasn’t to be. Skipper Pollard made the big play, as he so often does in this format, when he grabbed a stunning one-handed catch to his right to send Ingram packing for just four off Linde’s bowling to leave the Warriors reeling at 48/3. Kleinveldt and Linde looked to have clinched victory by the end of the ninth over as Christiaan Jonker (0) and Lesiba Ngoepe (3) fell in quick succession to reduce the visitors to 58/5. But Ackermann kept going at the other end and found a willing ally in wicket-keeper Clyde Fortuin, and the duo added a lively 50 runs to bring the Warriors back into the game. It was still a long shot for victory, though, as they needed 56 to win off the last five overs. And it was the unlikely figure of rookie spinner Nkululeko Serame who made the vital breakthrough as he bowled Fortuin for 22 to end the match as a contest. Serame wasn’t done yet as he had Ackermann caught by Mgijima at mid-wicket for an excellent 60 off 41 balls (3x4, 3x6). Linde (3/23 off four overs) and Kleinveldt (2/16 in four) were the stand-out Cobras bowlers as the Warriors finished on 151/8. Coach Adams will be a relieved man after the Cobras broke their duck, and they will travel to Potchefstroom with renewed confidence ahead of Sunday’s clash against the Lions (2.30pm start).  ashfak.mohamed@inl.co.za  @ashfakmohamed Independent Media