Johannesburg - The Federation of Unions of South Africa (Fedusa) has welcomed the recommendation by government to extend the youth employment tax incentive (ETI) scheme by another two-year period from December 31. “Fedusa believes that the two-year extension period will afford all social partners the opportunity to critically analyse the outcome and uptake of the scheme which encourages youth employment by both small and large businesses,” Fedusa general secretary Dennis George said. Fedusa's engagement on the proposed extension of the legislation by way of the National Economic Development and Labour Council (Nedlac) process would be further enhanced when additional submissions were presented by George to Parliament's finance standing committee on Wednesday November 9. “The federation's position on the ETI has been mitigated by the presentation of empirical evidence satisfying all concerns that no displacement of older workers is evident. Moreover, Fedusa's support of the regulation of temporary employment services, commonly referred to as labour brokers, was further mitigated as the evidence presented outlined that labour brokers did not benefit extensively from the ETI,” said George. However, Fedusa remained fully opposed to the proposed introduction of a R20 million cap on the incentive, which would by intention only act as an inhibitor and limit the opportunity to absorb and expand the skills base and competitiveness of both employees and businesses, he said. While the National Treasury showed that ETI claims in 2013/14 amounted to 134,923 jobs and 686,402 jobs in 2014/15, Fedusa believed that this upward trend should be encouraged and not stifled. These positive developments and policy interventions could only contribute towards the collective actions championed by the social partners, demonstrating total commitment to the promises made during the international investor roadshow and the 2016 South Africa tomorrow investor conference in New York. Fedusa believed the ETI offered some solution to addressing the structural problems of unemployment while attempting to increase the levels of employability and experience of both unemployed youth and graduates who failed to secure formal employment. Constructive interventions and collaboration that paved the way for more sound and stable economic and labour relations should be encouraged to ensure rapid and inclusive economic development. Fedusa remained committed to working together with all social partners in the spirit of deepened collaboration to find workable solutions that would lead to economic prosperity, poverty eradication, and equality, George said. African News Agency