I decided to find a fully-exclusive resort, where mom did not have to do anything - simply relax. When we think of fully inclusive resorts we generally think outside of South Africa - Mauritius, Seychelles, Zanzibar etc.. A photo posted by Trennerys Hotel (@trenneryshotel) on Feb 28, 2016 at 2:26am PST However, with two small children long haul (or even shorter) flights can be challenging. My husband is an avid fan of road-trips, so I decided to find a fully inclusive family-friendly resort within driving distance of Cape Town. READ: PICS: Stalking cheetahs at Samara Private Game Reserve After much time spent on the internet I realised that the epicentre for family friendly all inclusive resorts is the Eastern Cape. After much deliberation I decided on Trennery's Hotel, located and hour north of East London, in a remote area of the Wild Coast. The website promised an affordable family run hotel with old-world hospitality, the beach and lagoon accessible from the hotel and plenty of activities to keep the whole family happy. A photo posted by Trennerys Hotel (@trenneryshotel) on Aug 28, 2016 at 10:37am PDT The deciding factors for me were the chalet style accommodation and that we could pre-book a child-minder to take care of the little ones at a very reasonable daily rate. On arrival I was immediately charmed by the lush tropical vegetation and relaxed atmosphere. The rolling green lawns have a playground, trampoline, tennis court and beach-style swimming pool for the whole family to enjoy. A photo posted by Trennerys Hotel (@trenneryshotel) on Aug 31, 2016 at 2:56am PDT There is a separate dining area for children and the chef is a wonderful lady who caters specifically for the requirements of the individual children. She serves breakfast and lunch to the little ones before dining times in order for parents to be able to relax and enjoy their dinner in peace. A photo posted by Trennerys Hotel (@trenneryshotel) on Mar 18, 2016 at 3:41am PDT There is a play room with toys and that cater for kids under six years old and another larger games room for older children with numerous games tables, PlayStation and a home-cinema connected to DSTV. READ: #TourismForAll: PE to tap into eco-tourism market Our 5 days on the Wild Coast proved that there is no reason why South African families cannot enjoy a great all-inclusive holiday at an affordable rate without having to leave our borders.  For more information click below:  