Pretoria - Condolences continue to pour in for the families of four women who died when the pleasure boat Prime Time caught fire at Hartbeespoort Dam with crew and passengers on board. Three of them drowned in the pandemonium that ensued after Prime Time, known as the party boat, caught fire, while another died due to smoke inhalation in what is believed to be one of the worst tragedies in history at the popular holiday and leisure spot. The passengers were from various companies, among them teachers from a school in Mpumalanga who were on an end-of-year celebration. The boat is mainly used for corporate lunch cruises and braais as well as weddings and other events. North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo conveyed his condolences to the families of the four on behalf of the provincial government. “Our thoughts and prayers are with you during this difficult moment. We urge our police to ensure that the necessary investigations are conducted to determine the cause of the fire,” he said. The PAC followed suit, but questioned if consumption of alcohol played a part in the tragedy. It said it had been alleged the fire was caused by a cigarette. PAC spokesman Kenneth Mokgatlhe said: “One may wonder if they were not consuming alcohol. If they were, how do you allow people to consume such refreshments in an environment which needs much caution?” Mokgatlhe, who likened the incident to that of the legendary Titanic, said the PAC was saddened by the deaths of four people. “We are also sending our deep-felt condolences to the family of all the deceased and praying for those who are injured for a very speedy recovery.” The SAPS and South African Maritime Safety Authority said they had launched an investigation and an inquest docket had been opened following the tragedy. At 2.30pm on Saturday, the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) at Hartbeespoort Dam duty crew was activated following reports that Prime Time was on fire on the south eastern side of the dam, near the Pecanwood estate. Those on board the 25m boat were seen moving towards the front of the boat. Local boat clubs were activated and it appeared that everyone with boats in the vicinity responded to the call for assistance, with at least 25 to 30 private boats being launched. The Nuclear Energy Corporation of South Africa, which has emergency fire, rescue and ambulance teams at its nearby premises responded. So did the SAPS and its water unit as well as Hartbeespoort Emergency Rescue and Ambulance Services. “In an effort to rescue the passengers from the burning vessel, smaller vessels took on too many passengers and capsized, leading to the drowning and death of three passengers,” Craig Lambinon of the NSRI said. “According to a surveyor who was at the scene, the vessel caught fire at the aft (back) where the kitchen, bathrooms and the outboard motors are situated. The cause of fire is unknown at this stage and investigations are being conducted.” The rear end of the pleasure boat burst into flames, sending large clouds of black smoke billowing into the air, he said. Lambinon said it was believed that a woman suspected to have been trapped in a toilet succumbed to smoke inhalation. She was declared dead moments after being recovered from the boat. The three other women reportedly drowned and their bodies had been recovered and handed over to Forensic Pathology Services. They allegedly climbed off the vessel without life jackets on to one of the boats and drowned as there were too many people on board. “From what we understand, at least 156 to 200 passengers and crew were on board the boat when a fire started from unknown causes. “The exact number of people that were on board the boat at the time of the incident could not be established immediately, but it is believed that all passengers and crew are accounted for,” said Lambinon. “Private boats arriving at the scene first found a scene of chaos with people jumping off the boat into the water to escape the fire. It was reported that no one was wearing life jackets, but this could not be confirmed.” He said private boats rescued passengers from the water and transferred others on to their boats. They took them to the shore, and after the fire was extinguished, the boat was towed to Cosmos village by two private boats. “We commend the local private boats that responded to assist passengers and crew of the ferry. Your quick actions saved lives,” Lambinon said. Prime Time is owned by Boaters World Adventures and offers cruises with three-course meals, braais, a bar and music. North West MEC for Tourism Desbo Mohono said: “At this point, we urge everyone to treat this matter with the sensitivity it deserves and to allow the families to mourn in peace and to be supported. May the souls of the deceased rest in peace.”  tankiso.makhetha@inl.co.za  Pretoria News