Cape Town - A Struggle veteran was killed and another person is being treated for smoke inhalation after a fire broke out at Sizimisele Old Age Home in Langa at the weekend.Devastated residents at the facility described how their 60-year-old friend shouted for help while he was trapped inside his burning room just after midday on Saturday.The man, whose name has not been released because his family is yet to be informed, was declared dead at the scene.Residents at the facility referred to him by his clan name Mbhele.The fire is suspected to have been started by a cigarette he had allegedly been smoking before he fell asleep.Mbhele&apos;s 64-year-old friend Nkululeko Zono said he was sitting in front of the building when he noticed thick smoke billowing from one of the rooms.&quot;It&apos;s really terribly what happened to us yesterday. We are still horrified about what happened to Mbhele. He was one of us and we had become a family. We tried entering but the blaze was too much and there was nothing much that could be done and we turned away,&quot; said Zono.Mbhele&apos;s room was completely destroyed by the fire which spread to the other rooms, and several residents were evacuated from the building.Sizimisela old age home spokesperson Nonqaba Xamle said the resident was not able to escape because he was using a wheelchair.She said Mbhele had earlier visited his friends in the area, and they suspected he might have drunk several beers before returning.&quot;They are allowed to leave and visit because we are an independent old age home. When he returned he requested to be taken to bed. He asked for someone to go buy him a cigarette. His neighbour said the last time he checked on him was when he was smoking,&quot; said Xamle.&quot;He was mentally disturbed. His condition started while he was in exile. He would sometimes shout and scream about seeing things. When he was screaming for help other residents thought it was because of what he occasionally does. That is why they could not help him,&quot; said Xamle.She said most of the caregivers were in the kitchen preparing food when the fire broke out.&quot;We couldn&apos;t smell or see any smoke. We only became aware when we heard people shouting that there was fire in one of the rooms. By then it was too late. The blaze was already coming out of the windows,&quot; she said.Xamle said the man been living under a bridge in the CBD about three years ago when police came to ask for him to be accommodated.&quot;Most of the people that we house are people who don&apos;t have anywhere to go. Most of them are brought to us by police and social workers. As you can see we have mixed people from different backgrounds. We do not know exactly where he was coming from because he was brought by a police van when he came here to us for a place to stay,&quot; she said.Xamle said the man had children in Port Elizabeth and he and his wife divorced several years ago.&quot;He received financial support from government because he was a military veteran. He sometimes would say he was from Mthatha. But we do not know exactly what to believe because of his state of mind,&quot; said Xamle.&quot;There is trauma among other residents because of the incident. It is visible when you talk to them. I have had one-on-one consultations with them because that is what I do... They knew what sort of person he was. They would enjoy the sun together. He was someone who was very talkative and loved to share jokes,&quot; said Xamle.Police spokesperson Andre Traut said an inquest case docket had been registered. [email&#160;protected] Cape Times IOL News on Facebook IOL on Twitter