Angelina Jolie has reportedly vowed not to give Brad Pitt joint custody of their children until he gets his "s***" together". The 'Maleficent' star is ready to discuss the 52-year-old actor's response to her divorce petition, in which she requested full physical custody of their six kids. However, sources have told TMZ that she is only willing to let him see Maddox, 15, Pax, 12, Zahara, 11, Shiloh, 10, and eight-year-old twins Knox and Vivienne, through "monitored visitation" and Angelina, 41, will only reinstate their "normal" parenting if Brad addresses his anger issues first. The custody battle will also be influenced by the results of the investigation into Brad's altercation with his son Maddox on a flight, which is being carried out by the Los Angeles County Department of Children and Family Services. TMZ  previously reported that Brad gave the same separation date as Angelina did, September 15, 2016, and neither star has mentioned spousal or child support in their filings. Angelina and Brad previously agreed on a parenting plan, giving Angelina temporary physical custody over the kids with Brad allowed to visit them under the supervision of a therapist. Brad is alleged to have gotten "verbally abusive" and "physical" with their son Maddox while under the influence of alcohol during a flight on September 14 and Angelina filed for divorce just days later.   After an anonymous source reported the alleged incident, the FBI got involved as they have jurisdiction because it occurred mid-air and Angelina was questioned for four hours about it recently. A source previously explained: "The agents wanted a breakdown of everything that happened from when the plane took off to when it landed. Angelina fully cooperated." The insider added that the FBI "will likely investigate for another few weeks". After that they "will present the case to the prosecutor, who will evaluate whether they feel the need to bring charges. It could potentially be months". Yet both Brad and Angelina are eager to avoid a court case, with the insider explaining: "Neither side wants this to go to court because everything the FBI and DCFS (Department of Children and Family Services) investigated will potentially be made available to the public, which would be bad for the entire family." And it was later reported that "Maddox suffered no injuries and some witnesses on the jet say Brad's contact with the boy was inadvertent".  Bang Showbiz