The 37-year-old 'Keeping Up With the Kardashians' star has revealed "two days a week" is the maximum amount of time she will take off from exercising because it leaves her feeling better "mentally". Speaking about her rigid fitness plan, the brunette beauty said: "It helps me mentally. "Two days a week is the most I'll take off. I have to do it in the morning or else it doesn't happen, and having a partner is important." The trick that makes my eyes really pop. On my app. A photo posted by Kourtney Kardashian (@kourtneykardash) on Nov 17, 2016 at 10:48am PST And the television personality - who undergoes gruelling work outs with personal trainer Don Brooks - has revealed despite her busy schedule she will always make time to go to the gym and upload a picture of her "glam routine" in the morning. She explained: "I always post images in the morning. Sometimes I'm rushed trying to get out the door with the kids, so there's no time. But after the rush, when I've been to the gym and I'm about to start my glam routine, I'll upload a picture." Kourtney - who has sons Mason, six, 23-month-old Reign and four-year-old daughter Penelope with her former partner Scott Disick - has admitted she enjoys taking photos and experimenting with various apps, and lighting, although she knows a "sexy shot" will always get her the most likes on Instagram. She told Cosmopolitan magazine: "When you have amazing make-up, opt for bright lighting. I love the LuMee light phone case. Otherwise, natural light is always very flattering. I have a big window in my bathroom that I'll stand in front of to take a selfie. "If I upload a sexy shot, it will get a lot of likes. People love them. Any authentic shots with my kids do really well, but I try not to post a lot of them because I prefer to give my children privacy "I like to take pictures in WonderCam, it's a Japanese photo app. There's a filter called 'smooth' that's so good, and one called 'white', which is so pretty and makes your skin look really bright - kind of like a porcelain doll."