Cape Town - President Jacob Zuma has been emboldened by his allies&#x2019; show of support for backing him after a tough two days following the release of the state capture report.After a short trip to Zimbabwe on government business, even ageing Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe found time to joke Zuma was still in one piece despite what they had read about him.Independent analyst, Professor Sipho Seepe said Zuma would be able to survive the state capture report until he completed his term as ANC leader and president of the country.Zuma&#x2019;s term as ANC leader ends next year December and his term as head of state ends in 2019.But his opponents want him to go now. DA leader Mmusi Maimane said they will lobby ANC MPs to vote with them next week when they table another motion of no confidence in Zuma.This is the umpteenth time opposition parties have brought a motion of no-confidence in Zuma since he took office in 2009. Cope was the first party to do so in 2009 when its then Parliamentary leader Mvume Dandala Maimane said they will lobby ANC MPs to vote with them next week when they table another motion of no confidence in Zuma.This is the umpteenth time opposition parties have brought a motion of no-confidence in Zuma since he took office in 2009. Cope was the first party to do so in 2009 when its then Parliamentary leader Mvume Dandala challenged Zuma in Parliament.The ANC has described these motions as frivolous motions and a waste of time.The ANC Youth League, the Women&#x2019;s League and uMkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association reaffirmed their support for Zuma. They said they would ensure he completed his term in 2019 as head of state.Seepe said it would be difficult for the ANC to remove Zuma despite the growing voices within and outside the party for him to go. He said more than half of the members of the ANC National Executive Committee supported him.Zuma&#x2019;s support also came from the Free State, Mpumalanga, KwaZulu-Natal and North West province, said Seepe. He said Zuma also enjoyed support from MKMVA, the ANCYL and the ANCWL.Youth League secretary-general Njabulo Nzuzo said Zuma could not go on the basis of a report that was inconclusive. He said they would defend Zuma and ensured he finished his term as head of state. He said the report did not make findings against Zuma, but &#x201C;allegations&#x201D;.&#x201C;We believe the report is not factual, it is stating this is what this person says. There has never been a test of what those people (making the allegations in the report) are saying,&#x201D; said Nzuza.MKMVA national chairman Kebby Maphatsoe said they would ensure Zuma stayed in his job until 2019. He said there was no justification in those calling for Zuma to go as he had done nothing wrong.Maphatsoe said Zuma enjoyed support from structures of the ANC.&#x201C;We have criss-crossed the country speaking to the branches of the ANC, and they are saying they support the president and the president must finish his term,&#x201D; he said. Cape Argus IOL News on Facebook IOL on Twitter