Durban - Former East Coast Radio DJ Kevin Minter-Brown, who was dismissed over a controversial Facebook post, has won the first round labour battle against the radio station. The Arbitration Foundation of Southern Africa ruled on Thursday that the radio station, which dismissed Minter-Brown on the basis that he was an independent contractor, was incorrect. A ruling was made that found Minter-Brown to be an employee of ECR and therefore protected under the Labour Relations Act. The ruling, according to his lawyer, Jacques Schabort, means Minter-Brown can now pursue his claim of unfair dismissal from ECR. When he was axed from East Coast Radio, no disciplinary hearing was held as the station viewed him as an independent contractor. “This ruling changes that and is going to set a precedent in the industry because many radio stations employ employees in various designations, however, term them as independent contractors when they are actually employees,” Schabortsaid. Minter-Brown had worked at the station for 15 years on and off and at the time of his dismissal, he was a video producer who worked full time on an eight-hour shift that included paid and sick leave benefits. He was dismissed after causing a social media storm earlier this year when he referred to the deaths of two Durban cyclists, Jared Dwyer and Richard da Silva who were killed by a motorist who was alleged to have been drunk on the M4. Alluding to the fact that cycling on that stretch of road was illegal, Minter-Brown in a Facebook post said at the time: “I’m thinking of starting a running club; I know there’s plenty of other roads, but I think if there’s an opportunity to put us directly in harm’s way, then why not?” Minter-Brown later removed the post and apologised for it. However, East Coast Radio terminated Minter-Brown’s contract a day later, calling it “insensitive and offensive”. The radio station argued during arbitration that a written contract which stated that Minter-Brown was “an independent contractor” allowed him to undertake other work as there was no conflict of interest. Arbitrator, advocate Paul Schumann, ruled that while Minter-Brown was paid for other work he had undertaken “he remained primarily economically dependent on his monthly salary from the respondent (East Coast Radio)”. And while he had signed a contract that stated he was an “independent contractor”, Schumann ruled that Minter-Brown was “an employee of the respondent (East Coast Radio) and entitled to the protections afforded by the Labour Relations Act”. The radio station was ordered to pay for the full costs of the private arbitration. Minter-Brown said on Thursday that regardless of what he had said in the Facebook post the arbitration ruling found that his dismissal was illegal. He said the arbitration was not about the merits of his Facebook post, but whether he was an employee of the radio station Despite winning the first round, he said he did not want to go back to East Coast Radio. Minter-Brown said that a date would be set for another arbitration meeting to determine the costs. East Coast Radio’s programming manager, Zane Derbyshire, said: “We are aware of the judgment and are in the process of studying it before deciding how to proceed.” Daily News