Durban - A Durban brigadier is making waves on the international policing scene as the first South African to serve as the Africa delegate on Interpol s executive committee. Brigadier Anbuen Scott Naidoo, 45, from Merebank was also appointed last week as one of seven people to be part of the organisation s working finance and strategy group. The announcement was made at Interpol s 85th annual general meeting in Bali, Indonesia. Naidoo has been heading Interpol, known as the world s largest police organisation, in South Africa since 2010. The organisation includes 190 countries. Jackie Selebi was vice-president of the Africa region and then its president from 2002-2008. After matriculating at Merebank Secondary school, Naidoo s passion for crime fighting developed. He pursued his dream of joining the SAPS in 1992. He began his career in front line policing in serious and violent crimes before becoming a crime intelligence officer. He joined the Scorpions as a senior special investigator in 2003. By 2006, he had been appointed to the State Security Agency. During his progression, he studied towards his Master s degree in international security studies at Wits University. There are several accomplishments Naidoo is proud of. One is his involvement in Interpol s new global complex in Singapore. In 2011, I was one of 26 representatives from different countries to look at the design and focus areas of the Interpol Global Complex. By 2014, this building was completed and is now the central cyber hub for the organisation, said Naidoo. One of his goals for the year ahead is to work with South Africa s five biggest banks to curb transnational organised crime. Transnational organised crime involves money being moved around through syndicates from country to country. I want to get our banks to co-operate so that we can share vital information at an international level, said Naidoo. He also plans to focus on developing the skills and training of African police to be on a par with international standards. Before his term on Interpol s executive committee ends in 2018, he plans to bring the Interpol African regional conference to South Africa. Interpol SA has made some outstanding breakthroughs in recent years. In 2014, we managed to extradite 14 fugitives involved in cyber-crime to the US, he said.South Afirca also now has the largest Interpol office in Africa with 27 liaisons in prioritised countries. It is also the only office to have a designated fugitive task team. We have never had this kind of footprint in the past and we are proud of what we have achieved over the years. Interpol SA plays an intricate part in identifying global crime trends and patterns that have an impact on the country. The network of 27 liaisons is an extension of the SA Interpol office and enhances the communication and maintains strategic relationships with the countries that they are posted to. It is the ideal platform for law enforcement agencies to share information in real time, over a secure communication system, he saidNaidoo is also currently working on establishing Africa s Interpol cyber-hub in Harare, Zimbabwe, which is expected to be up and running by 2018. When he is not dealing with fugitives, cyber-crime, drug trafficking, poaching or international organised crime, he is able to spend quality time with his wife, Ugeshni, and children. The nature of the job requires me to travel a lot. All of my extra time is spent with my daughter Kiyara, 5, and son Jiveshan, 11. This for me, is the most rewarding experience. I cannot wait to get home after a trip, to see my children, he said.Sunday Tribune