Johannesburg As festive season anti-crime operations gain momentum, the South African Police Service (SAPS), metro police, and other law-enforcement agencies in Gauteng have declared war against criminals, the SAPS said on Sunday.Over the weekend, four high calibre firearms; a shotgun; 12 pistols; more than 200 rounds of ammunition; five bulletproof vests; explosives, including blasting cartridges, electronic detonators, safety fuses and a 12-volt battery; a police jersey; constable s rank insignia; and hijacked vehicles had been seized, Lt-Col Lungelo Dlamini said.During a shoot-out between police officers and suspects, a police officer was wounded and three people died, including two suspects and a civilian. The police officer was recovering in hospital.Cases of murder, attempted murder, possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition, possession of suspected stolen vehicles, and illegal possession of explosives and law enforcement equipment would be some of the charges facing 20 arrested suspects, Dlamini said.While investigations were continuing, one of the suspects arrested in Midrand, Johannesburg, may be linked to several outstanding cases, including ATM bombings, posing as a member of the SAPS and other law-enforcement agencies, business robberies, and attacks on members of the police. The suspects would appear in various magistrate s courts in the province.In one of the incidents, a shoot-out ensued between members of the Johannesburg Flying Squad and suspects in Riverlea while police were following up information about a hijacked vehicle. When police spotted the vehicle, [the] suspects jumped out and hijacked another vehicle. Police gave chase which resulted in the shoot-out. A police officer was shot and wounded. Two suspects were fatally shot, and a member of the public who was caught in crossfire was wounded and died on arrival at hospital. Police seized a rifle, a 9mm pistol, and a stolen VW Jetta. Several vehicles belonging to members of the public were also damaged, Dlamini said. In Midrand, members of the Johannesburg metro police doing a stop-and-search operation spotted a suspicious grey Mercedes Benz vehicle which failed to stop. A chase then ensued until the suspicious vehicle lost control at the corner of Mimosa and Garden roads. One suspect was arrested. On searching the car, police found five bulletproofs vests belonging to the SAPS, the South African Defence Force, and security companies; a police jersey with the rank of constable insignia; three high calibre firearms with 200 rounds of ammunition; and explosives, including blasting cartridges, electronic detonators, safety fuses, and a 12-volt battery, he said.It was also established that the Mercedes Benz was hijacked in Kempton Park during October. Further investigations were continuing as the suspect might be part of a gang involved in a spate of serious and violent crimes, including attacks on members of the law-enforcement agencies in Gauteng.Other suspects found in possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition were arrested in various areas, including Dobsonville, Olievenhoutbosch, Germiston, Loate, Sophiatown, Brakpan, Johannesburg Central, and Alexandra. The firearms would be taken for ballistic examination as they might be linked to other cases, including murder, attempted murder, and armed robberies, Dlamini said.Members of the public were urged to report suspicious people and vehicles. Information that may lead to the arrest and conviction of criminals involved in serious and violent crime may be rewarded. Information may be forwarded to Crime Stop at 08600-1011 or to the nearest police station at all times.African News Agency