Six years later, Kopano Matlwa Mabaso, author of the much acclaimed books ‘The Coconut’ and ‘Spilt Milk’, has finally launched her third novel called ‘Period Pain’. She hosted friends and media last night at The AGOG gallery in Maboneng Precinct in Johannesburg. According to Matlwa, the book is written around the lives of two African women unfolding how those lives play out against the backdrop of everything that is happening in Africa, from corruption, rape, xenophobia, to issues of body image and so forth. “I feel very privileged to have my family and friends here, it’s exciting.  I think that when you are working on something on a computer and then you finally have it in your hands and you feel it, it’s exhilarating. I am really happy,” she said enthusiastically. At the launch, she introduced Period Pain to the attendees by reading a portion from the book before expanding on her thoughts behind the novel, her inspirations and excitements. Having written her first book when she was only 2, she expressed gratitude to that girl who took the plunge and wrote because it allowed her to do things that she is doing now and brought her closer to God. “I write about things that upset me, interest me, excite me…..I draw inspiration from life. “I think I have grown as a writer, I am more confident in my writing, I take few more risks and try different things. All the books were written in different stages of my life and I have particularly enjoyed this one because I have not worried much about the audience and really just tried to write authentically.” Matlwa hopes that the books takes each person on their own individual journey. “I eco one of my favourite musician’s words, Lauren Hill, when she says that her music means whatever it means to you. My writing means whatever it means to you and I hope that these character meet you where you are.” Responding to how she tackles life issues, she looks at what contribution she can to make to our country through literature, therefore creating a better society for the future generations. Bridget Impey, managing director of Jacana Media responsible for publishing the book, commented about the process of the book. “Working with Kopano is a complete pleasure, she is the ultimate professional. Part of being a publisher is learning to take leaps of faith with an author and Kopano takes us there, hand outstretched. “Each of Kopano’s books are unique, and each touches on a moment.  Period Pain is such an unsparing look at the lives of young black professional women. The Coconut won her the European Literary Award in 2007 and the Wole Soyinka Prize for African Literature shortly after. It was hinted that the last book might be turned into a film, thanks to Terry Petto, but there was no clear confirmation on this matter. Books will soon hit stores near you.  IOL