Dobsonville Stadium Bidvest Wits.................... (0) 1 Mhango 53 Chippa United................. 0 Only a handful of Wits Supports bothered to make the trek from Johannesburg CBD to watch their team play here in Dobsonville. But that didn’t stop the Clever Boys to continue building on their unbeaten run at home this season. This was their fourth win at home. Dan Malesela had opted to start with the veteran forward ahead of his other strikers. He needed a win and had hoped that the striker would hit the ground running in this clash. But 34-year old former Mamelodi Sundowns’ marksman didn’t. He struggled in the first 45 minutes of the game. The Clever Boys’ defense, which he had trained with for the past few weeks to keep fit before he joined Chippa, had studied him like a book. They knew his movements. He struggled to shake them off. They had him on lockdown. Just 20 minutes into the game, Mashego was presented to with a chance at goal when he broke loose from Wits’ to take his first shot at goal. The player, however, couldn’t convert the chance his shot went on to strike the side of the net. Chippa continued with their slick touches moving forward, while Wits were still trying to make adjustments to their new surroundings. The Clever Boys were forced to make use of the Dobsonville stadium as their alternative home venue, due to the ongoing Fees Must Fall strike at Wits University. The management of the club didn’t want to risk their match being ambushed by student protesters who could have forced their league fixture against Chippa being cancelled. Wits’ performance was so poor in the first period that Gavin Hunt was forced to make one substitution before the break. He brought in Ben Motshwari to partner with Thabang Monare in the heart of midfield, while Xola Mlambo made way for the player. But, his decision didn’t bear fruit on the match as went to the halftime break goalless. Wits, however, played with more intent in second period of the game. They created most chances moving forward, forcing the Chilli Boys to trek backward each time they were on the move. That pressure Wits exerted upfront worked wonders for them when Elias Pelembe whipped in a powerful cross to connect with Gabadinho Mhango who was unmarked outside the box. Mhango did not disappoint. He coolly converted the chance with a well taken header, with the goalkeeper way out of his goalline. Independent Media