Rugby writer Wynona Louw looks at five Springbok roookies who could make a difference on their tour of Europe. Sergeal Petersen (Cheetahs) Where do I start? Let’s go with the Currie Cup final. Sergeal Petersen was unstoppable in Bloemfontein. He rounded off on scintillating interplay to score the last try, and also created one in fine style as he laid the groundwork for Clayton Blommetjies to score after a superb run in the build-up to the five-pointer. And that was nothing new. He scored nine tries for Franco Smith’s side in Super Rugby this year. But never mind that. After all, scoring tries is not all Petersen has to offer. His pace is devastating. His agility - that ability to step and swerve - is intoxicating. And those clever little kicks that put his teammates into space (if he doesn’t capitalise on it himself), are amazing. But I don’t have to go on and on about how good he is, I’m sure he will prove that at Wembley. Francois Venter (Cheetahs) He is not only a great leader - in fact, I would say his skills as a midfielder kind of top that. Francois Venter is a class player. He is strong, attacking and his defensive ability is right up there. He is quick, he reads situations well and he has this knack for spotting a gap and utilising it fully. And then of course there’s his communication, his try-scoring ability and those offloads. What more could you ask for? Uzair Cassiem (Cheetahs) It puzzles me how the blindside flank has been overlooked for Wembley. With an impeccable work-rate, a strong physique and skills that I wish we could see in more loose forwards, Uzair Cassiem is definitely one to watch and he should have been in the team. With every firing display the flanker stuns with his ball-carrying prowess (the way he exploits space should have his fellow loosies taking notes), his tackle count and his ability to contribute greatly at the lineouts makes him a real asset. Don’t believe me? Just think back to Currie Cup final where he showed all of the above and more in a much-deserved man-of-the-match outing Rohan Janse van Rensburg (Golden Lions) If there is one man who has been cruelly overlooked this year, it’s Rohan Janse van Rensburg. This guy has been setting centre stage alight with the Lions, with performances that made certain centres in the Bok jersey look dull. He has undoubtedly been one of the standout performers, and with that strength, power, speed and just his all-round skill, how can he not be? Jamba Ulengo (Bulls) I wonder how opposition teams feel when they see the former Sevens star get his hands on the ball, especially if it’s in front of an open try line. He is a big, FAST and skilful wing. So you can imagine that the former 100-metre sprinter is not many players’ favourite to defend. The try king, who was one of the leading try-scorers this season, is always looking to improve his game and make the most of his opportunities. So I don’t see why he’d hold back come the weekend. Worth mentioning Cheslin Kolbe (Western Province): The fullback hasn’t exactly thrilled with his showings of late, but we all know what he’s capable of. Who knows, maybe the deceptively sweet-stepping dynamite will make up for his relatively bland Currie Cup performances.Roelof Smit (Bulls): He dominates the breakdowns like few other in South Africa can, and although he didn’t get too many opportunities during Super Rugby, he should be eager to show what he can do against the Baa-Baas. Cape Times