Cape Town - A dad of four experienced a real-life Halloween horror when he was slashed with a sword in a crazed attack.Antonio Sauls, 33, from Tafelsig, Cape Town, said he s lucky to be alive after a stranger nearly chopped his arm off with a Samurai sword last Friday.The father, whose wife is giving birth to his fifth child via C-Section on Friday, said he just came home from visiting her at Groote Schuur Hospital, and decided to visit friends.The traumatised man said he and four others were enjoying a few cold beers in Karbonkel Street just after 4pm when the 49-year-old suspect, who was unknown to the friends, asked if he could join them. He asked to drink a few beers with us and we said it s okay, said Sauls. But nobody said anything to him, he drank two or three glasses and then left. Sauls said the stranger returned minutes later in a car. He got out and drew a Samurai sword. Hy was smoordronk (He was very drunk), the dad said. I didn t know he was coming for me because he wasn t aggressive or violent, but within seconds he raised his sword and hit me with it. Sauls said everyone was in shock. It happened so fast, when I lifted my arms [to protect himself], the sword cut the glass [he had in his hand] in half and sliced a deep cut into my right arm. I said wat maak die ou dan nou? (What is this guy doing now?) He got into his car and drove away. I could see he also looked shocked. I quickly took off my T-shirt and ran home to my mother who rushed me to [Groote Schuur] hospital. Marlene Sauls, 57, said she was shocked to see Sauls s bloody forearm. He became drowsy and lost a lot of blood, she said.Sauls said the cut was 30 centimetres long and he had to receive 18 stitches.The dad said he made sure to take lots of pictures of his injuries, even in the operating room, as evidence.Sauls, who works for a printing company, is just very angry that he won t be using his arm for a while. I won t be able to work for six months or even help my wife with our newborn baby girl as I can t use my right arm, he said.Police spokesperson Captain FC Van Wyk said a case of assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm has been opened for investigation. A 49-year-old suspect has been arrested and will appear in Mitchells Plain Magistrates' Court in November 9. Daily Voice