Movie: Kashmora Cast: Karthi, Nayanatara, Sri Divya, Vivek Story, Screenplay and Direction: Gokul Music: Santosh Narayanan Classification: TBA Running Time : 2hours 40 mins. Rating  : *** (3 stars out of 5)  Plot Kashmora (Karthi) and is family eke out a profitable living by fraudulently making people believe that he is an exorcist of note and can solve all of their problems. Chelapathy Rao seeks Kaashmora's help and takes him to a haunted bungalow to drive away the ghosts that haunt that bungalow. The bungalow is haunted by the ghost of Raj Nayak ( a king of a famous dynasty) and his subordinates. Raj Nayak in turn asks Kashmora to help him and his subordinates free themselves from the ghost world. This freedom, however, comes at a cost,- that of sacrificing five people belonging to the same family with the same birth sign. Further, the sacrifice should be performed by a lady who is the only surviving woman in her lineage. This should happen during the night of Namakali Pournami that occurs once every 1000 years. To his utter surprise Kaashmora learns that his family members all have the same birth sign and that Yamini (Sri Divya) is the only surviving woman in her family. With all the requirements having being met for the sacrifice what does Kashmora do forms the rest of the plot of the movie.  Verdict Karthi in a multi-layered role carries the movie completely. In an award winning, brilliant performance he is commended for his effortless portrayal of Raj Nayak and Kashmora, slipping easily from one to the other. Nayanthara’s  role is brief and her performance adequate. Sri Divya is commendable as Yamini. Kashmora’s visual splendour, grand artwork and extravagant costumes elevate the movie. Santosh Narayanan’s background score is lack lustre with just two tracks worthy of mention (Dhikku Dhikku and Oyaa Oyaa)  Gokul’s light-hearted script depends heavily on the dialogues and the performances of Karthi and Vivek who plays Kashmora’s father.  Recommendation It’s a breezy entertainer peppered with some fantastic humorous one liners.  Mala Lutchmanan is a media personality, author and educator. She presents the Tamil magazine programme, Inisai Mazhai, on Fridays and The Best of Kodambakkam on Sundays from 2pm to 5pm on Lotus FM 87.7 to 106.8. Audio streaming: lotusfm.co.za IOL