Harare - The opposition People's Democratic Party on Wednesday accused Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (ZEC) chairperson Rita Makarau of having already rigged the 2018 elections on behalf of the ruling Zanu-PF. In a statement, PDP Secretary for Elections, Settlement Chikwinya said Makarau was creating a disaster similar to the one of 2013, by not registering voters in time for the elections. He said it was difficult to understand how the ZEC was carrying out a mapping exercise when the electoral body did not have a voters' roll. &quot;We therefore, believe that Makarau's remarks prove that she is a political animal. It is therefore no doubt that like what happened in 2013, Makarau has already stolen the 2018 election on behalf of Zanu PF,&quot; he said. Chikwinya said the position taken by ZEC disallowing Zimbabweans outside the country from voting was both political and unconstitutional, adding it was the right of every Zimbabwean over the age of 18 to vote regardless of where they were. &quot;By the virtue of the country's Constitution, the Diaspora vote is a constitutional right for the Zimbabweans living outside the country. Every Zimbabwean who is over 18 years of age has a right to vote in all elections in terms of the Constitution,&quot; he said. He called for the disbanding of the ZEC secretariat which he said was staffed by shadowy characters and replace it with an independent national election management body. &quot;We also demand a repeal and redrafting of the Electoral Act, the creation of an Independent Electoral Court, opening of the media space, continuous voter registration (and) cancellation of voting slips,&quot; he said. Chikwinya said Makarau remained compromised by holding the positions of the secretary of the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) as well as being the ZEC chairperson. This he said, put into doubt her impartiality in ensuring that next elections in Zimbabwe were free, fair, credible and uncontested. &quot;We totally dismiss Makarau's claims that she does not feel any conflict of interest by holding the two positions. The relationship between these two roles is that as the secretary of the JSC, Makarau is responsible for the welfare and the process of appointing of the country's judges. It is the same judges who are supposed to hear cases of dispute against ZEC where Justice Makarau is the chairperson,&quot; he said. The PDP reiterated its calls for the establishment of a National Transitional Authority which would attend to issues of national stability and peace and create a conducive environment for free and fair elections. African News Agency