 Cape Town - Three family members who were arrested after an arms cache was found in the floor of their house have been released on R60 000 bail. The father, his son and his daughter were granted R20 000 bail each in the Goodwood District Court on Thursday. This follows their arrest last Friday when police discovered 250 police-issue firearms and ammunition locked in three safes, and an undisclosed amount of cash. According to police sources, the weapons, found after a two-year investigation, are linked to convicted former cop Christiaan Prinsloo, who admitted to stealing SAPS firearms and ammunition destined for destruction and supplying the weapons to criminals - “primarily members of gangs on the Cape Flats”. Prinsloo named Cape Flats businessman Irshaad Laher as his middleman. Johannes Abrahams, 66, his son Johannes Abrahams Junior, 41, and daughter Bonita Abrahams, 36, are charged with the unlawful possession of prohibited firearms, the unlawful possession of prohibited ammunition and tampering with serial numbers. With the three during their first court appearance were Mohamed Shahied, 35, and Clive van Schalkwyk, 42, but both were released after charges were withdrawn. The case had on Monday been postponed for bail information, but seasoned advocate Peter Mihalik rocked up with all his ducks in a row on Thursday and prosecutor Christian de Jong said there was no reason to oppose bail. Goodwood District Court Magistrate Paul Visagie said that just because the State was not opposing bail, did not mean bail would be granted. He then set bail at R20 000 each. The bail conditions were that they may not leave the Western Cape without written permission from the investigating officer, and that they appear in court again on January 19. A third condition, applicable only to Abrahams Jnr, is he surrender his passport to the investigating officer. A total of R60 000 was paid by the family and the three left the court with their heads and faces covered before diving into a car and driving off. Sibling Lorraine Taylor, 29, looked relieved and said she was glad her family was coming home. “I am just happy they are coming home and we are going to spend a lot of time together,” she said. IOL