Abu Dhabi - Abu Dhabi Tourism & Culture Authority, which conserves and promotes the emirate's heritage, culture and traditions has launched a new worldwide promotional campaign aimed at encouraging travellers to experience Abu Dhabi's 'extraordinary stories.' The campaign highlights Abu Dhabi as the inspiring destination for those wanting to experience cultural authenticity and diverse natural assets aligned to the Abu Dhabi Plan's objectives of delivering an original and attractive tourism and cultural destination. “It tells the extraordinary story of Abu Dhabi, from its ancient past to its modern wonders, guiding audiences through breathtaking natural environments and exhilarating experiences,” explained His Excellency Mohamed Khalifa Al Mubarak, Chairman, TCA Abu Dhabi. “Every filmed moment, every photograph and word evokes the poetic beauty and authenticity of the emirate, which invites travellers to become a part of its story.   “Audiences will also discover a dynamic, family-leisure entertainment destination and one which also holds out ambitious business opportunities. The campaign will unearth these stories and bring them to life for our potential visitors, inspiring them to journey here.” Following an eight-month development process, the campaign comprises a two-series television commercial dedicated to GCC  and international markets which will be broadcast and run across TV networks, digital channels and in-flight entertainment systems. Also in production are five-promotional videos which highlight Abu Dhabi's tourism, culture, MICE, events and cruise experiences which will be available to Abu Dhabi's tourism stakeholders to be used in exhibitions, roadshows, and events. The commercials and videos capture a range of authentic moments, landscapes and emotions shot across 40 locations throughout the emirate. These include UAE capital cityscapes and landmarks, nature reserves and island resorts, forts and palaces in Al Ain, as well as the awe-inspiring deserts and coastline of the Al Gharbia Western Region. The campaign will be rolled out internationally from November and will primarily focus on Abu Dhabi's core markets of the UAE, India, China, the UK, Germany, USA and the GCC.  Adapted from a press release for IOL * Visit the official destination website visitabudhabi.ae for more info