Cape Town - False Bay anglers, who have increasingly been arming themselves before heading out for a day of fishing, are tired of being soft targets for criminals and are looking at ways of taking back their beaches.Iershaad Ameerodien of the Cape Town Rock and Surf fishing forum, said they were in the process of setting up a neighbourhood watch to patrol hotspots from Mnandi to Strandfontein. We understand police don t always have the manpower so our volunteers will patrol on Fridays and Saturdays for now. He said they wanted to do it properly and not take the law into their own hands. We ll have workshops to educate the guys on what their rights are and set uprosters and have the guys wearing high visibility vests which we hope to get sponsored. He said there had been several muggings and robberies recently, but they didn t have any official statistics because people often didn t open cases with the police. There have also been a few cases in the Strand, including an attempted hijacking. Ameerodien confirmed many anglers were arming themselves before heading out for a day of fishing. I haven t taken my son with me for years because I m too worried something will happen. Only if I go to the Overberg will I let him join me. In 2014, a fisherman was shot dead by robbers while fishing off Strandfontein beach.Ameerodien said people were often too scared to fish at night. We encourage anglers to fish in groups, the days of secret spots are over, he joked.Police spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Andre Traut said the Strandfontein police were aware of the concerns of anglers fishing along False Bay, and measures to increase policing of the area had been implemented. Our festive season operational plan is also contributing in this regard with higher numbers of police officers being deployed to increase police visibility in areas frequented by holidaymakers and local communities. Traut said fishermen were aware of the dangers of visiting isolated areas early in the morning or late at night and they had been warned to be vigilant at all times. If at all possible, visit these areas in groups. The Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries announced this week the 2016/17 West Coast Rock Lobster recreational fishing season will open on November 26, close on April 17 and will be restricted to 21 days. Visit: www.daff.gov.za to see on which days fishing is permitted. Fishing times are from 8am until 4pm and the bag limit is four per person per day.[email&#160;protected]Cape Argus