Tshwane - The 2016 final examinations at the Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) kicked off at all its campuses and offsite locations on Monday, although some disruptions were experienced on the first day of the examinations, spokesperson Willa de Ruyter said. It appears that a number of students who have been suspended are attempting to destabilise the Soshanguve Campuses [north of Pretoria]. Exams are continuing without interruptions at the distant campuses in eMalahleni, Mbombela and Polokwane, said De Ruyter in a statement. Security has been reinforced and the SA Police Service will be on standby for the duration of the examination period to ensure the safety of staff and students. The university will continue to ensure that the integrity of the examinations is not compromised in any way to safeguard the academic success of our students. De Ruyter said students from the Pretoria main, Arts and Arcadia campuses were transported to the Tshwane Events Centre for the exams. Soshanguve students were also transported to the Tshwane Events Centre this morning, although some delays were experienced following disruptions at the Soshanguve campuses over the weekend and again this morning, she said.At the notorious Soshanguve campus, numerous security guards were individually frisking every TUT student boarding the designated buses ferrying the learners to the secured examinations centre established at the Tshwane Events Centre.Under the watchful eye of numerous police officers, armed with side pistols and wielding shotguns, the security guards frisked every student and required proof before allowing them onto the buses.On Sunday, a TUT bus was torched near the Soshanguve south campus, as tensions continued to simmer ahead of the exams kicking off on Monday. Another bus was reportedly torched on Monday morning.Last week, De Ruyter announced that despite continued attempts to disrupt the 2016 final examinations, the tests would not be suspended, but some students would write from the secured location. A decision was taken that Soshanguve students will write the main exams, as well as the re-exams for 2016, at the Tshwane Events Centre. Residence and day students residing in Soshanguve will be provided with transport to and from the examination venue, said De Ruyter. Students will have to produce a student card and personalised final exam timetable before they will be allowed to utilise the transport provided. De Ruyter said the SA Police Service has been engaged to remain on standby during the examination period. The TUT buses were being escorted by SAPS and Tshwane Metro Police Department marked vehicles as their transported the students on Monday.African News Agency