AbaThembu traditional leaders used the coronation of Prince Azenathi Zanelizwe Dalindyebo, 24, as acting king to extend an olive branch to all their members and to call for unity in the faction-riddled tribe. This comes after they were dealt a blow following the death of Chief Daludumo Mtirara, one of the core members of the AbaThembu royal family, who reportedly committed suicide at his Pretoria home on Thursday night. Despite the death of Daludumo, who was opposed to the coronation of Prince Azenathi, Bumbane Great Place outside Mthatha was alive with festivities yesterday. Scores of AbaThembu gathered for the coronation of the prince as acting king. His wife, Usikhumbulile Dalindyebo, and his mother, NoCollege Dalindyebo, were part of the ceremony. Prince Azenathi, the son of the jailed AbaThembu King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo, was enrobed with a leopard skin by Chief Zwelinzima Mthembu and Chief Zwelenqaba Mgudlwa. The AbaThembu also used the coronation to formally start a campaign for the release of Dalindyebo, who is serving a 12-year jail term at an East London prison. Mgudlwa said they were happy the coronation had finally taken place. “Prince Azenathi is now taking responsibilities as acting king. He will lead the nation until the release of King Zwelibanzi,” Mgudlwa said. The Eastern Cape government as well as other family members, like the Matanzima and Mandela houses, did not attend the event. Chief Zwelodumo Mtirara, who was also the programme director of the ceremony, repeatedly announced that the provincial government and President Jacob Zuma had been invited to attend the coronation. Eastern Cape premier Phumulo Masualle, whose name appeared in the programme, was also not present. The Eastern Cape department of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs spokesman Mamnkeli Ngam said Prince Azenathi’s coronation was a family affair not a government function. King Zwelibanzi’s brother Prince Jongisizwe Mthandeni Dalindyebo, who was recommended to act as king by the department-aligned commission, was also not part of the ceremony. Mgudlwa said the government “has snubbed us and we are disappointed because we have invited them”. Mgudlwa extended condolences to Daludumo’s wife and children. “We are devastated by his death because Daludumo is one of us, we are one family.” Independent Media