In an unprecedented stance of solidarity, the South African cricket team arrived in unison at Friday afternoon s media conference to strongly refute the Lollygate ball tampering accusations against Proteas captain Faf du Plessis with Hashim Amla terming it a joke and ridiculous .The International Cricket Council are currently reviewing television footage showing Du Plessis saliva to the ball at Bellerive with a lolly in his mouth during the crushing innings and 80-run defeat of Australia at the Bellerive Oval in Hobart earlier this week.Although both umpires Aleem Dar and Richard Kettlebrough did not report the incident, the matter was still handed over to the ICC and it has grown exponentially here in the Australian media over the past few days. The reason we are standing here together it to show solidarity with what we thought was a joke. The allegations against Faf is ridiculous, and as a team we are standing strong, Amla told the media on the outskirts of the boundary at the MCG. For us it s basically a joke. We have done nothing wrong. Faf has done absolutely nothing wrong. Amla was also dismissive of the claims that former England captain Marcus Trescothick admitted in 2009 that he used mints to help produce saliva which kept the ball newer for longer periods during the 2005 series against Australia. Is it? Is that a tactic? I wasn t aware of that. Is it proven? That s new to us, the former Test skipper said strongly. We have done nothing wrong. Faf has done absolutely nothing wrong. Do you want me to brush my teeth after lunch every time I come out to field? If we standing in the field for two hours, don t you want me to have some biltong, some nuts in my pocket? There was no malicious intent. Amla also led a thinly-veiled attack at the Australians, who are currently under severe pressure after losing five Tests in a row, including this on-going series against South Africa with still the final Test in Adelaide to come. It more sounds like sour sweets, Amla said. The timing is a bit weird also. I am just trying to clear a wrongful decision against our team. Independent Media