Cape Town - A first-time mother says she would rather be sterilised than have another baby after a horrifying ordeal at a public hospital in Cape Town. Azra Adams said she was left unattended for hours at the Macassar Community Day Centre and was ordered to clean her own vomit while she was having contractions. The 21-year-old said after cleaning the floor with her own clothes, she had to hop into the labour room where she gave birth to her baby girl on her own. Indra Adams was born on November 15.Azra arrived at the hospital 4.45am after she went into labour. I went to the hospital and I was put into a room where the nurses would check on me every now and then, she said. I was 1cm dilated at this point. Another woman was in the room with me but when it was time for her to give birth, the nurses didn t worry with me much. I endured the pain because I didn t want to scream. Azra s mother Ganeefa Adams, 59, who accompanied her daughter, said she was told she could go home. Later the afternoon, the nurse checked on me and told me I am 3cm apart now, said Azra. I was left alone and around 1pm I got nauseous because of the pain, and I threw up. There was no one around, so I went to security to find a cleaner. Azra said that when she found the cleaner, the woman told her she had to clean it up herself and pointed in the direction of the mops. I didn t have the energy to go get the mop and a bucket so I just used my own new towel and shirt to clean it. A few minutes I could feel the baby was on its way. I called for the sister, I even called security but I don t think they could help me because they are not allowed to leave their posts. I went into the corridor and I walked into the labour room. I had to hop and squeeze because I could see she [baby] would come out and fall on the floor. As I hopped on the bed, I could feel her head then I just as I gave one push. The baby and the placenta and everything came out. A few seconds later, a nurse walked in and asked me what happened and how I gave birth so quick, when the last time they checked I was 3cm. I think that is also why I tore a little. Azra said she suffered the worst pain when the doctor gave her stitches. The doctor gave me an injection but I could still feel everything, she said. Giving birth wasn t as bad as that was. I don t want to go through that again. I told my mommy I would rather sterilise myself than have another experience like that again. Spokesperson for the health department Sithembiso Magubane said they were not aware of Azra s ordeal. The patient did not express any dissatisfaction with the service during the whole pre and post birthing process at the Postnatal Ward, said Magubane.He said a follow-up appointment had been arranged with the young mother on Wednesday.Daily Voice