Durban - Shopkeepers in Lancers Road in Durban s Warwick Junction precinct are having sleepless nights after a string of burglaries.Thieves made four failed attempts to bust into Nadeem Muhamed s cellphone shop between October 29 and November 1, before turning to a neighbouring shop, which he also owns.Muhamed said: In the one shop they tried to break in for four days in a row. On the fourth day the thieves changed tack and went to the other shop and broke into it. He said the criminals got away with R50&acirc; 000 worth of goods. He said a friend who had seen his shop open alerted him to the burglary. He now has to explain to customers why he cannot give them their cellphones which they had brought in for repairs. Now I cannot sleep properly. Every time I get a call or SMS at night I worry that it could be another burglary, he said.Pharmacist Aaliyah Abdulla said her business, also in the Warwick precinct, had been hit by burglars last month and in September.In the first incident, the thieves forced open the roller door and cut the locks. She bought stronger locks but this did not deter the criminals, who broke in a second time. Once inside the pharmacy they stole baby food, nappies and lotions. She said thieves target such goods because they are easily sold.A supermarket manager who works on the same street, said the store he works in had also been burgled in the past few days. The manager, however, could not give further details as he was not authorised to speak to the media. I am in fear of another break-in, I can t sleep in peace, she said.Police spokeswoman Nqobile Gwala confirmed there had been a break-in at the cellphone repair shop. A case of business burglary is being investigated by Durban Central police. It is alleged on November 1, the complainant left his business premises with all doors and windows locked and secured. When he returned the following day, he discovered that it had been broken into. The cellphones that were in the premises for repairs were stolen as well as new cellphones. No arrests were made, investigations are continuing. Daily News