SA needs to make sustained effort to dismantle its patriarchal structure and enable women to access equal rights or this problem will continue to prevail, writes Patience Mungwari Mpani.Pretoria - Gender inequalities are at the heart of rape culture in South Africa and without conscious sustained and deliberate effort to dismantle them, the problem will prevail. Gender equality should be understood in a much broader frame than the equal treatment of all human beings regardless of gender, extending to include the need for creating an enabling social and institutional environment for all women and men to be able to access equal rights, responsibilities and opportunities.Inequalities are not just expressed in our beliefs, attitudes and actions, but are entrenched within social structures and institutions to maintain and reinforce the superiority of one gender over another.We need to reflect continually on how we think of ourselves (our gender identity) and value ourselves. We then need to reflect on how we value others. What is your social standing (gender stratification) and where do you place others? Few of us ever really think about our privilege or lack thereof in terms of gender, nor do we consider how we must change the status quo. Yes, we acknowledge it when it is politically correct to do so and join campaigns as a feel-good measure, but to live the revolution on a daily basis is a completely different story. What then is our individual and collective place in the hierarchy?We must always remember that gender inequality is deeply rooted in a patriarchal system that subordinatesone gender and elevates another, and therefore creates unequal social categories for men and women.Patriarchy esteems heterosexuality, male virility, dominance, aggression and power, while women s virtue is seen to be in their being acquiescent, quiet, submissive and passive. Patriarchy usually subordinates women to men, but we are increasingly seeing how, within each gender category, some subgroups are subordinate to others based on age, class, race, gender identity and disability. Among men, for instance, certain values and behaviours are esteemed, thereby disenfranchising those who lack these attributes. For example, heterosexuality is the norm and is privileged over homosexuality.It is this undervaluing of one group of people that allows society as a whole to condone and perpetuate sexual violence. Violence against women manifests gender inequality when women become targets of male aggression because men have been socialised to view women as sex objects for their pleasure or because men feel a sense of entitlement over women s bodies. Another example is when women are viewed as second-class citizens who are not supposed to challenge the authority of men, violence is intended to put women in their place , silence them, force their co-operation or to maintain the social order - the very argument for corrective rape.In a similar vein, older women police young women s bodies and violate them through practices such as virginity testing or even female genital mutilation, in an attempt to keep young girls pure for the pleasure of the men who eventually marry them. The strict regulation and control of women s sexuality in patriarchal societies is done by both men and women, in a variety of ways and with clear and enforceable penalties that range from a disapproving scowl to a slit throat in extreme cases. All this is part of the routine process of socialisation and gendered identity construction through which girls and women are persistently reminded that they are the possessions of men.Both men and women perpetuate gender-based violence and we must pay attention to this to fully respondto the problem. It is why both men and women can sit and condemn a rape victim based on what she was wearing or where she was at a particular time. After all, good women do not drink or wear short skirts. We have come to normalise and downplay gender-based violence, particularly sexual violence, creating a culture of rape. Women have learnt - whether by experience or through education - to accept sexual harassment, to live in situations of continued violence, to expect violence as inevitable, to turn a blind eye to it and to organise their lives around routines that protect them from violence. Women in South Africa live with fear of sexual violence and wear it like a second skin. Each of us wears it differently depending on our race class, sexual preference and community, but from birth we have been taught our lessons well. Women have also learnt the hard way to keep quiet about violence, lest they be shamed, ostracised, blamed, not believed, ridiculed and even punished for being a victim. Those who have dared to speak out about sexual harassment, rape and other forms of sexual assault have in many cases not been supported in their quest for justice. Secondary victimisation of victims of violence is all too common in our society.Furthermore, these imbalances operate in the context of a nearly universal sexual double standard that gives men greater sexual freedom and rights of self-determination than women. Men have been taught to blur the lines between consent and non-consent, engaging in sexual coercion and describing it as persistence, expecting sexual favours in exchange for a bottle or two of beer or some other trinket, at the expense of a woman s dignity and self-worth. The objectification of women is a daily occurrence, taking forms such as catcalling, groping, rape jokes, sex tapes and perpetrating or justifying sexual assault or other forms of gender-based violence. We have created a continuum of violence where a peeping tom is understood as harmless, where we thank God that a woman was only raped and not killed, and where threats of violence are seen as harmless.* Mpani is programme manager: Gender Unit at the Centre of Human Rights at the University of Pretoria.** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.Pretoria News