New York - What's the perfect gift for someone planning a trip? We asked three people who make their living in the travel industry to tell us what they always bring with them on trips. We also asked what they'd like to receive as a gift to take on trips, and what they'd give to someone planning a trip. Here are ideas and inspiration for your travel gift list from Dylan Thuras, co-founder of the Atlas Obscura website; Crystal Cruises CEO Edie Rodriguez, and John Tanzanella, CEO of the International Gay and Lesbian Travel Association.  DYLAN THURAS, CO-FOUNDER OF ATLAS OBSCURA MUST HAVES: One great backpack that fits in an overhead but can also fit all your stuff, with a laptop pocket for easy access on the security line. I am obsessed with not checking bags - I have a strange vendetta against the rolling bag, it feels like a defeat of the adventurer's soul. One bag forces you to shed needless items. I love the one I have now by d'emploi, It can stand up to serious wear and tear, I have stuffed a hundred pounds worth of camera gear into it and it held up no problem. It is simple, utilitarian, and really beautiful. I also always travel with a camera or two, currently a Canon EOS 70D, which is a nice sturdy workhorse of a camera. I also often bring an old Nimslo 3D camera, which is a camera that shoots on film using four lenses to make those 3D postcards you have seen in gift shops.  A photo posted by Pete Hatznet (@hatznet) on Dec 11, 2014 at 10:06pm PST  Now that my wife Michelle and I are travelling with our almost two-year-old son, Phineas, I have found that a small portable child seat made to be attached to any chair is an essential. COULD USE: A great coat. I have worn my two-piece Spiewak jacket to tatters and am in need of a great new coat. Coats are one of those things it is worth spending a bit on, and make a good “big gift” as you should be able to get years out of a good coat. I love the winter coats that have a detachable shell inside that can be worn as a lighter coat. Either the Spiewak Heron snorkel parka or the bomber with detachable jacket would be really amazing fancy gifts to get. A good rain coat is also much needed, and this all-season rain coat by Filson looks quite nice! I hope my wife is reading this. TO GIVE: Besides the amazing new Atlas Obscura book? One thing I think it is really nice to give for a trip is a travel watercolour set. You can get a simple one or a fancy one and along with a set of watercolour postcards it is a really nice travel gift. Taking the time to sit down and paint a little scene, even if it only take 20 minutes helps etch it into your memory, and then you get to send it to someone you love! DREAM TRIP: A trip to Albania would be at the top of my fairy godmother wish list. I am deeply interested in the country's complex history and beautiful countryside.  EDIE RODRIGUEZ, CEO OF CRYSTAL CRUISES MUST HAVES: I always travel with two passports with extra pages and my international electrical plug converter that works in any country. As a “mobile” CEO I must travel with both of my iPhones - yes I have two - chargers for those phones, and my make-up. My favourite things to travel with are quite simple: healthy snacks to stay nourished, bottled water to stay hydrated and moisturiser because travelling especially on planes and at sea can really dry out your skin. COULD USE: I would love a new carry-on suitcase. My current one has travelled with me to many destinations and is now very worn and I just haven't had time to find a worthy replacement. TO GIVE: I would definitely give any traveller an iPad complete with a charger and converter. I would probably also throw in a fabulous carry-on suitcase. DREAM TRIP: A trip on one of our new Crystal AirCruises 29-day itineraries which launch in August 2017.  A photo posted by Baroque Lifestyle (@baroquelifestyle) on Nov 16, 2016 at 1:43pm PST   JOHN TANZANELLA, CEO OF THE INTERNATIONAL GAY AND LESBIAN TRAVEL ASSOCIATION MUST-HAVES: Space-saver roll-up storage bags are essential for packing when I have to combine business and leisure travel or back-to-back trips in a variety of climates. Look for the ones that don't require a vacuum. There's also a great app I use when I travel abroad, CityMaps2Go. Before you leave home, you download the map of the destination. The app doesn't require Wi-Fi or data roaming for access, but you can still see where you are on the map at all times via your phone's GPS.  A photo posted by CityMaps2Go (@citymaps2go) on Jul 23, 2016 at 6:12am PDT  COULD USE: Dress clothes that don't wrinkle! TO GIVE: A Flytographer photo shoot. The company uses local photographers all over the world. While you explore, they capture the moments in an informal way. Much better than taking 1 000 selfies! AP