Kanye West's childhood home is being turned into a “community Arts incubator”. The rapper's longtime collaborator Che 'Rhymefest' Smith, revealed on Instagram that the house in Chicago has been bought will be the first in a series of “Nationwide Lite-Houses” run by Donda's House, the charity he co-founded in memory of Kanye's late mother, Dr Donda West. He wrote: “I'm excited to announce the purchase of Kanye's childhood home as a community Arts incubator. It will be the first of our Nationwide Lite-Houses. A state of the art recording studio, a curriculum space for @dondashouse and southside music museum. We want to show bright spots in communities that’ve been divested from, we know more Lights exist here, they just need to be activated. “Please click the link in my bio & Donate to DondasHouse, support our efforts to support our youth (sic).” A message on the charity's website states: “Donda's House, Inc. provides unprecedented access and education from leading experts in music, fashion, and tv/film to Chicago's youth and young adults. Donda's House was created in 2013 by Grammy-award winning artist Che “Rhymefest” Smith and distinguished educator, Donnie Smith, Donda's House, Inc. “In order to deepen its impact, Donda's House has acquired a home facility that will provide a permanent location for all of the Donda's House family to gather, offer programming, and grow. Donda's House envisions this facility as not only a homegrown hub of economic activity for the southside but also a gathering place for the community with events and concerts. Donda's House selected this location in particular, because it is the former home of the organisation's namesake Dr. Donda West, who at one time provided similar services and support to incubate young artists. Donda's House is committed to the success of Chicago's young creatives and this property will help these young people flourish.” Donda passed away on November 10, 2007 following complications after a breast reduction and abdominoplasty surgery. Bang Showbiz