Johannesburg - Eskom boss Brian Molefe on Thursday reiterated his denial of being captured by the Guptas after the State of Capture report revealed cellphone tracking records suggesting that he had been dealing with the controversial family on numerous occasions.This comes after former Public Protector Advocate Thuli Madonsela s report said cellphone evidence revealed that Molefe was at or near the Guptas Saxonwold compound in Johannesburg 19 times between August 5 and November 17 2015.The report, which investigated the alleged influence and improper relationship of the Gupta family in the removal and appointment of ministers and directors of state-owned entities, further said Molefe and Ajay Gupta made 58 telephone calls to one another between August 2015 and March 2016.The report further details phone calls between Molefe and Ronica Ragavan, a long-time Gupta associate who was recently appointed acting CEO of Oakbay Investments, the family s main holding company.Molefe did not deny being in the Gupta vicinity during those dates, but did not admit being in the Gupta compound or meeting the Gupta brothers either.He used an analogy of a goat thief to insist on his innocence. When a person is known to be a goat thief, if one day you see him walking next to a heard of goats, it does not mean he is a goat thief, Molefe said. What surprises me is that the Public Protector says my cellphone shows I was in Saxonwold 14 times, I was there in the area. My cellphone reflects that I was in Saxonwold 14 times, close to the head of proverbial goats. My cellphone reflects I was in the area. Molefe suggested there might have been other reasons why he was around Saxonwold but was not afforded the opportunity to explain to Madonsela why he was in the vicinity of the Gupta residence. There s a shebeen there, two streets away from the Guptas. I will not admit or deny that I have gone to the shebeen. But there is a shebeen there, Molefe said. In my case the public protector has painted me with a corrupt brush. Eskom board chairman Ben Ngubane also lashed out at Madonsela, accusing her of denying Eskom executives the right of reply in her report which implicates them in possible wrong doing.Ngubane said the report should have been completed by the new Public Protector, Busisiwe Mkhwebane, who took over from Madonsela last month.Eskom had earlier in the day reported a 10.5 percent increase in revenue year-on-year to R97.1bn for the six months ended in September due to a 31.6 percent increase in electricity exports to Botswana, Namibia, Zambia and Zimbabwe. African News Agency