Parliament - National Director of Public Prosecutions Shaun Abrahams on Friday remained unapologetic as he briefed MPs about a decision to prosecute Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan on fraud charges and the subsequent withdrawal of the charges. Speaking during a meeting of Parliament's portfolio committee on justice, Abrahams insisted he did not take the decision to prosecute Gordhan - repeating that it was taken by the acting head of the National Prosecuting Authority's priority Litigation Unit Torie Pretorius, in consulation with the director for public prosecutions in North Gauteng, Sibongile Mzinyathi. When asked by Democratic Alliance MP Glynnis Breytenbach why Pretorius and Mzinyathi were not present to answer questions, Abrahams said he did not deem it necessary . Breytenbach pushed Abrahams on why he was refusing to take responsibility and apologise for the distress caused to Gordhan and former SA Revenue Service employees Ivan Pillay and Oupa Magashula. There certainly was no intention remotely to act detrimentally or to negate the rights of any of the persons concerned here. There was no mala fides remotely in the making of this decision, in the announcement of this decision, Abrahams replied. I was satisfied that there was a case. I certainly had no intention, nor did the institution have the intention, nor did Mr Pretorius or Mr Mzinyathi have the intention to cause distress to Minister Gordhan, Mr Pillay or Mr Magashula. Abrahams was summoned by the committee to defend himself against, among others, whether his office was captured to fight factional battles within the ruling African National Congress (ANC) party after his announcement on Monday that charges against Gordhan would be dropped due to lack of evidence. Opening the meeting earlier, committee chairman Mathole Motshekga said several incidents, including the withdrawal of charges against Gordhan, the dropping of charges against Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) head Robert McBride, and the subsequent release of the former Public Protector's report into state capture gave rise to suggestions that the office of the director of public prosecution had been captured to fight factional battles within the ruling party and fight for control of the national treasury . This meeting has been called to afford you an opportunity to talk to Parliament and the people of South Africa about the turn of events because this Parliament and the people of SA cannot afford to have any organisation like the office of the director of public prosecutions which is not independent or credible or is not seen as being independent and credible because this office lies at the heart of our criminal justice system, said Motshekga. African News Agency