America needs a leader who understands the danger climate change poses, and Donald Trump definitely does not, writes Aishwarya Kumar.Ellen DeGeneres posted on Facebook: I texted Leonardo DiCaprio to come be on my show, and he showed up three hours later. The post popped up with the hashtag Before the Flood.It was about National Geographic&#x2019;s 100-minute documentary &#x2013; which is available for free on Nat Geo&#x2019;s Facebook page and on their channels - on climate change that DiCaprio worked on the last three years. He was on Ellen&#x2019;s show for less than two minutes, but there was an urgency in his eyes and voice that resonated with DeGeneres and the fans in the studio.And the same urgency is palpable throughout the documentary. Leo is no scientist. He is like any other human being who is trying to understand the significance of climate change and the means to mitigate it. There was almost a childlike approach Leo look to understanding climate change. He understands, the incredible actor that he is, that in order for this documentary to reach the common man, he needs to explain it in simple terms.And not for a second was I bored watching the documentary. Throughout, I felt like I was learning and walking the path with him, when he was in Greenland, China and later in India. There was the scientific world of climate change, there was him and then there was me. And I felt like he was acting as the middleman to help me understand the concept better.The documentary starts off with journalists and scientists being cynical about choosing Leo as the UN messenger for peace on climate change. Leo doubted himself. He says, &#x201C;The more I try to learn about it, the more I realize I know so very little about it.&#x201D;But to me that felt earnest. He wanted to try his best to help earth in whatever way he could. Every time he says, &#x201C;wow, this is so cool,&#x201D; or &#x201C;This is unbelievable,&#x201D; you think those things with him. People still think of climate change as an abstract term and that it is not the most pressing issue, and this documentary is very effective in making even those non-believers question themselves.The main takeaway from the documentary for me was this &#x2013; the earth&#x2019;s temperature is currently rising at 0.85 degree Celsius. The coral reefs will begin to die even before the it reaches 2 degree Celsius. But the prediction says that the earth will see a raise in temperature by 1.5 to 2 degree Celcius. There is nothing that can be done about it. At 3 degree celcius, the tipping point occurs, that is, the earth will start self destruction. And this is when all is lost. So the main goal now is to make sure the temperature doesn&#x2019;t raise by more than 2 degree celcius.Human beings are the reason behind climate change and if we don&#x2019;t do anything about it, it is only a matter of time before the tipping point will occur and the earth will destroy itself, along with us. It was incredible to see how even a simple change in diet from beef to chicken will reduce emission of fossil fuel (i.e. methane from raising and feeding cattle).What was strikingly ironic and painful was when Leo mentioned that they had to relocate the entire set of The Revenant from Canada to Argentina mid-shooting because the ice in Canada had melted away suddenly.Throughout the documentary, I kept going to back to one question: There are scientists and people like Leo who are working day and night to make people aware of climate change and then there is Donald Trump, who says climate change is a hoax created by the Chinese government. What?It is like when Cornelius Fudge refused to accept the fact that Lord Voldemort was back in book five of Harry Potter because he knew he wouldn&#x2019;t be able to do squat to find a solution to put him away for good.And then there are people like Marco Rubio who says he &#x201C;does not believe that human activities are causing these dramatic changes to climate the way these sciences are portraying it.&#x201D;Are you saying solid proof is not enough for you to believe in something?I am sorry, but you must be delirious. Or incredibly stupid.From Barack Obama to Pope Francis, Leo traveled the length and breath of the world to find a way for earth to never reach the tipping point. He says he is a cynic, that he doesn&#x2019;t know if this is doable, if earth is savable. But I see a sense of raw passion and optimism in his eyes whenever he tries to understand a problem. And that is the kind of leader the US and the world will need to look up to in order to face this very pressing issue head on.With Election Day coming up in less than three days, America needs a leader who understands the danger climate change poses. If Trump becomes the next president, that essentially means we are kissing the earth as we know it goodbye.Because Trump will crack jokes about heat and climate change like it is nothing more than a fictitious villain from a storybook.If Voldemort were real, even he would tell you that climate change is real and is not going away until we do something about it.Catch the full documentary on Nat Geo&#x2019;s Facebook page and their YouTube channel. Aishwarya Kumar is a student at Northwestern University in Chicago and part of the Medill News Service. She is currently an intern at The Star newspaper. The views expressed here do not necessarily reflect those of Independent Media.