Istanbul - Turkish Airlines, Europe’s best airline for six consecutive years according to the recent Skytrax results, has taken its in-flight experience even further. Having the passenger’ satisfaction as the company’s priority, the entertainment selection was broadened in order to reach the widest range of passengers’ requests. In cooperation with Denon, one of the world’s highest-quality audio and home entertainment systems manufacturers, Turkish Airlines’ Business class travellers on America-bound flights will have the possibility to experience a renewed audio experience. Thanks to this partnership, the audio engineering company will provide a comfortable set of headphones, which are able to deliver perfect sound while minimising ambient noise to 99 percent. Together with a brand new audio experience, Turkish Airlines has introduced another tech novelty to its range of in-flight services. Business class passengers on flights that do not have rear seat screens, as well as trips that last above 2 ½ hours, will have the ability to spend their aircraft time watching movies or playing games through a Samsung Galaxy S2 tablet. As its last technological addition, the Turkish carrier has updated its mobile app in order to further enhance its passengers’ flight experience. With this updated version, passengers can add flights, reissue tickets, cancel reservations, add infant passengers and upgrading Economy Class tickets to Business Class in addition to many of previous services such as ticketing, reservation and check-in; now these services are also available on passengers’ smartphones or tablets. The app’s new features will offer tips and ideas for travellers, including maps of the world's major airport terminals, tool especially useful for first-time passengers. Driving directions will be added to the app, while the featured airports will be Istanbul’s Atatürk; Hong Kong International; London Heathrow; and Miami International Airport. Adapted from a press release for IOL