THE Equality Court in Wynberg has dismissed an application by taxi driver Michelle Puis Nomgcana for hate speech and discrimination against Djavan Arrigone.The former model had been found guilty of assault and crimen injuria after he urinated on Nomgcana from a balcony at a Claremont nightclub last year. Nomgcana wants a public apology and remuneration from the 21-year-old as he feels the incident cost him his dignity.The complainant was not present, but his mother, Ayala Katz, urged Nomgcana to drop the matter in court yesterday. The interaction became tense in the small courtroom, but ended after Nomgcana s attorney, Genevieve Manuel, asked him to move away from Katz.Arrigone s attorney, Ilse Taylor, submitted their grounds for the application s dismissal to magistrate Mbalana Yako. The affidavit submitted does not set out a place of either hate speech or unfair discrimination. During open court, with media present, my client apologised to Mr Nomgcana, said Taylor.She said her client could not find employment due to the vilification he endured, and if the court decided to proceed with the case, she recommended mediation.Manuel countered that her client made the affidavit with the assistance of a court clerk. Why the utterances were not included, we cannot answer to, but we request to have the papers supplemented to include them. My client also feels the apologies were not sincere and requires remuneration for a cleansing ceremony, said Manuel.Manuel said the incident had damaged Nomgcana s reputation, and he was unable to find work.Yako said the court could only consider the documentation. You cannot argue what is outside the court documents. We are in agreement the hate speech, which is at the heart of the application, is not present in the application. He said the argument had been exhausted, and saw no reason to reserve judgment and accepted the application to dismiss the case. Both parties left the courtroom and Katz requested to speak to Nomgcana again.After conversing with Katz and consulting his counsel, Nomgcana said he was very disappointed at the outcome. This has cost me years, my dignity. My family is being mocked and I cannot find work because of what this has done to my reputation. &quot;They say he cannot afford to pay for my ritual, but his parents can afford an expensive attorney and I must use legal aid, said Nomgcana.He said he would continue to fight to reclaim his dignity.