Parliament - There was not a shred of proof that a decision to prosecute Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan was politically motivated, National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) boss Shaun Abrahams told MPs on Friday, as he also acknowledged the current political climate did not bode well for public confidence in prosecutors. There is not an iota of proof of political interference in this matter...the matter of political interference is much publicised in the media and is very much self-created, Abrahams said while briefing Parliament's portfolio committee on justice. I can assure this committee, the initial decision to prosecute Minister Gordhan was not a politically motivated decision and further to re-emphasise that the fact that the charges were withdrawn should be testament to my independence as the national director of public prosecutions. He dismissed accusations that he was being captured to further certain political interests. Captured by whom? Can anybody answer that question? Abrahams asked rhetorically. The current political climate in the country and all the fingers being pointed towards the NPA does not bode well for public confidence in the institution, but we will continue to prosecute without fear, favour or prejudice. Opposition MPs probed his visit to Luthuli House, the Johannesburg headquarters of South Africa's ruling African National Congress (ANC), a day before announcing Gordhan had been served with a summons to appear in court on fraud charges, to which Abrahams gave a dramatic account of why he met with President Jacob Zuma and some cabinet ministers. It's a Monday afternoon, I'm an hour away from a dentist appointment, buses are burning, shops are being looted, vehicles and buildings are being vandalised, people are being assaulted, It's a state of anarchy. I receive a phone call from the minister of justice who requests my assistance at a briefing. It's an emergency briefing. I attend this briefing, he said, again insisting his presence at Luthuli House was to discuss the ongoing student unrest in the country. I didn't attend this meeting at Luthuli House to meet with ANC officials. I attended this meeting to meet with ministers in the security cluster. He did regret the venue of the meeting, but dismissed suggestions that he was there to meet Zuma about the Gordhan prosecution. The president did not invite me to this meeting. The president did not even know I would be in attendance at this meeting, he said. Of course, I wished that it wasn't that venue...I disagree with you completely that attending this meeting is indicative of a lack of sound judgement... Abrahams remained unapologetic, saying the intention to prosecute Gordhan and former SA Revenue Service employees, Ivan Pillay and Oupa Magashula, was never meant to deliberately cause distress or harm to their reputations. Our Constitution provides everyone is equal before the law and I don't deem it necessary under these circumstances to tender an apology, he said. He insisted that he did not make the decision to prosecute, repeating that it was taken by the acting head of the National Prosecuting Authority's Priority Crimes Litigation Unit Torie Pretorius, in consultation with the director for public prosecutions in North Gauteng, Sibongile Mzinyathi. When asked by Democratic Alliance MP Glynnis Breytenbach why Pretorius and Mzinyathi were not present to answer questions, Abrahams said he did not deem it necessary . Breytenbach pushed Abrahams on why he was refusing to take responsibility and apologise. There certainly was no intention remotely to act detrimentally or to negate the rights of any of the persons concerned here. There was no mala fides remotely in the making of this decision, in the announcement of this decision, Abrahams replied. On October 11 this year, Abrahams announced that Gordhan, Magashula and Pillay had received summons to appear in court on November 2 on fraud charges related to the approval of the latter's early retirement with full benefits. A public outcry ensued, with suggestions from various quarters that Gordhan was being pursued on criminal charges as part of a battle for control of the Treasury. After significant pressure from opposition parties, civil society organisations, and even from within the ruling ANC, the charges were withdrawn. Making the announcement on Monday, October 31, Abrahams said that following submissions to him made by legal representatives for Pillay and Magashula, he was withdrawing the charges, citing the lack of intent which was necessary for a successful prosecution. African News Agency