Durban - Durban prostitutes are believed to be turning a new trick - forcing themselves into vehicles driven by men and demanding money. Glenwood resident Sally Ann Baylis posted a warning on social media this week about prostitutes who jumped into vehicles and harassed the driver for money. “This happened to a client of mine. He stopped at the intersection of Esther Roberts and Clark Roads and before he could pull off, a prostitute jumped into the passenger seat,” she said. Baylis said while he should not have been driving with his doors unlocked, this was a scam she had never heard of before. “He was horrified when this woman jumped in and he told her to get out of the car. She refused unless he gave her some money,” said Baylis, who lives in Glenwood. She said he had leaned over the woman and opened the door and tried to push her out. “The next minute a police officer appeared out of nowhere and started questioning him. When he tried to explain what had happened the officer was not interested in hearing his story. Fortunately my client’s wife, who wasn’t feeling well, was sleeping on the back seat and woke up. Suspiciously, when his wife sat up, the prostitute and the officer scuppered,” said Baylis. She said she was not sure if the officer was a legitimate “police officer” or someone impersonating an officer. “Please drivers, be aware and drive with your doors locked. We all hear about hijackings and smash-and-grabs and now we must be aware of this as well,” she said. At least two other people commented on her online post, stating that they too were aware of prostitutes forcing themselves into cars and demanding money. Heather Rorick, chairwoman of the Bulwer Safety and Urban Regeneration Forum that is trying to stop illegal activities in the greater Glenwood area, said she believed the “scam” had been around for some time, but the addition of a police officer was a new take. “We cannot say for certain if it was a fake police officer or a real one,” she said. “However, we have heard of instances where prostitutes jump into vehicles while the driver is distracted. When the driver refuses to hand over any money, the women tear at their own clothes and start shouting that the man refuses to pay for her services. “Clearly the driver becomes embarrassed and now he’s placed in a bad situation. This is why I don’t support a name-and-shame campaign to stop prostitution, as it can taint innocent people,” she said. KZN SAPS spokesman Thulani Zwane said while the police had no cases on record of prostitutes forcing themselves on drivers, he urged people to report them. Independent on Saturday