Opinion by Shannon Ebrahim, Group Foreign EditorFidel Castro, one of the greatest revolutionaries the world has ever seen, passed away at 10:24pm on Friday at the age of 90. Tributes to Cuba s revolutionary leader have poured in from around the globe.Cuba s Ambassador to South Africa, Carlos Fernandez de Cossio paid tribute to his leader saying, He lives and dies undefeated. Under the leadership of Fidel and his brother Raul, the small impoverished nation of Cuba has withstood 56 years of a punishing US economic embargo.President Jacob Zuma expressed his condolences to the Cuban people saying, Castro led the Cuban revolution and dedicated his entire life not only to the freedom of the Cuban people and the right of the Cuban state to sovereignty and self-determination, but also the freedom of other oppressed people around the world. At the ANC s National Executive Committee meeting on Saturday, members were emotional at the passing of one of the ANC s staunchest allies, agreeing that it was Castro who had taught the world the essence of what it means to be human.Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa told Independent Media that Castro could be put in the same realm as Mandela, and that Cuba has lost their own Mandela. Fidel s death is a great loss. I met him in 1999 and his energy was amazing. His passing is a great loss for progressive formations and the ANC alliance. We will forever be grateful for his selfless support to revolutions around the world, Ramaphosa said.Former President Nelson Mandela had regarded Castro as one of his closest friends and comrades. The first foreign leader he visited when he was released from prison was Castro in Havana, to express his gratitude for the role Castro played in supporting the liberation of South Africa and the region.Mandela had immense admiration for the efforts made during Cuba s revolution. We admire the sacrifices of the Cuban people in maintaining their independence and sovereignty in the face of the vicious imperialist-orchestrated campaign to destroy the impressive gains made in the Cuban revolution, Mandela had said.Speaking from the NEC meeting in Kempton Park on Saturday, ANC Secretary General Gwede Mantashe told Independent Media, We appreciate the contribution of Comrade Fidel Castro to the liberation of Southern Africa. The presence of his Cuban soldiers to liberation was critical, and we appreciate his revolutionary solidarity. Echoing those sentiments, ANC veteran and struggle stalwart Ebrahim Ebrahim, who met Castro on a number of occasions said, In Castro we lost a giant of the revolution. He was an inspiration to all revolutionaries throughout the world, and his contribution to the liberation of Southern Africa was unparalleled. Cosatu's President Sidumo Dlamini told Independent Media that workers of the world and South Africa in particular will always cherish the father of the Cuban revolution. Not only did Castro unite the working class, but he fought imperialist domination around the world. But as Castro said regarding President Obama's recent visit to his country, the world mustn't be fooled as the economic embargo against Cuba is still standing. Blade Nzimande, General Secretary of the SACP told Independent Media that Fidel was one of the greatest heroes of the 20th century. What was amazing about him was his solidarity with the oppressed and the poor, with no expectations of what Cuba would get out of it. He supported our struggle unconditionally when he went into Angola. One day he said to me that unlike others who went to wage wars in Africa, Cuba went to defend a just struggle bringing back not gold and diamonds but only the body bags of their fighters. Independent Media