Cape Town - A Cape Town resident believes she was the victim of a real-life vampire attack.The mom of four said she narrowly escaped death after her drinking buddies allegedly turned demonic and tried to suck her blood, claiming the devil wanted her.Theresa Simons, 53, said prayer helped her escape the terrible ordeal, during which she was allegedly drugged, bitten, stabbed and burnt with cigarette butts.Simons, a well-known community worker in Brooklyn, explains she and her husband Andor Simons, 59, visited their friends, a couple they met in a tavern two years ago, on Saturday morning and shared four boxes of wine. We arrived at around 10.30am and we were all sitting and drinking and the man of the house borrowed about R220 to buy two more boxes of wine, she said. By about 4.30pm, my husband went for a walk and sat at the park across the house.Theresa Simons demonstrates the position she was in as drinking pals' allegedly mutilated her. Picture: Bertram Malgas As soon as he left, I started feeling funny and then I was lights out. When I came to life, the man of the house was standing over me and he said the devil said your number is up, I m going to kill you now . I got such a fright, I realised I was on the floor, I felt paralysed and him and his girlfriend were dragging me up and down the floor. I was burnt with cigarettes and then came the even stranger part, this man started biting me. He tried to suck my blood but couldn t pierce my skin. His girlfriend held me down and he bit me on my stomach, on my lower back, he even stabbed me. They said they would cut my body up into pieces, I would be a missing person and nobody would find me. I just started thinking about my kids and I began praying to God, and this man said don t say God here, Satan wants you .She said he pulled down her pants to rape her but she managed to fight him off. Out of nowhere, I managed to get up and make a run for the door, where I found a lady passing by the road and she helped me home. Andor says he later woke up in the park and returned to the house, where the couple told him Theresa had gone home.Theresa said her alleged attackers are yet to be arrested. I ve known these people for two years; I never imagined they were vampires who would do this to me, she says.Police spokesperson Constable Noloyiso Rwexana confirms a case of sexual assault is being investigated. Daily Voice