Durban - The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Education has spent R592 million so far this year on the matric exams and said it was on track to record a 70% pass rate.This amounted to 45% of its R1.3 billion budget and was used for administering the March, June and September exams. The department must spend more than R800m of the budget, apportioned to examinations and associated services , before the next financial year. This emerged in a department report tabled with the finance portfolio committee in the legislature. Department head, Dr Enoch Nzama, said the money had been spent on the turnaround strategy to improve the matric pass rate after it slumped to 60% last year. We have to monitor, involving travelling and; hire vehicles to transport papers, which ended up pushing our budget to where it is, he said. Nzama said the timing of the exams - March, June, September (trials) and November (finals) - ensured the budget could be spent in one single financial year without having accruals for the next financial year. He said some of the money had been spent on monitoring at schools during the exam periods. But despite the spending, the province was not doing well at maths, although progress had been made on last year s performance. Maths is still not at the level that is expected. You are looking at 39 to 42%, but we are working hard to ensure it is far better than what we obtained last year. If we perform at 42% with the raw marks, that suggests we are now far better than the previous performance, he said. Nzama said there had been a steady improvement in the examination results this year and that matric pupils were on course to improve their pass rate to 70% this year. Nzama added that the results had improved during the course of the year and there was evidence of progress from the lows of an average 58% pass in March, to 68.9% in June and a high of 72% in September after the trial exams. There is growth; those are predictions that suggest the department is moving up the ladder instead of going down, so our prediction is that we will meet our 70% target. That 72% refers to raw marks, they are not adjusted, they are not standardised&acirc; &brvbar; If we are to get these marks at that level and they are standardised, we might go higher than 70, so we are positive we will get much better than last year, he said. He said the March results had only been analysed for the schools that performed under 60% in last year s exams and that the June and September predictions included all schools sitting for the examinations. Meanwhile, the department said it was not to blame for pupils prioritising maths over maths literacy. This after a Sadtu press conference last month where the teachers union said the department and schools were forcing pupils to take maths over maths literacy while failing to provide adequate teachers. We are not forcing the learners to take maths. We allow them to make a choice of their subjects, we don t apply pressure. It is their and their parents' decision to decide on the subjects they want, but ours is to guide as the department, Nzama said.Daily News