Durban - A witness to the alleged road rage incident that left a young man dead and a former policeman on trial for his murder, told the Pietermaritzburg Regional Court on Tuesday how she had held the hand of the dying man, and prayed with him until help arrived.Shona Naicker was testifying at the trial of Thobelani Khuzwayo, who shot dead 27-year-old Kavlin Naidoo in the Pietermaritzburg CBD in November 2014.Khuzwayo, a sergeant at the Pietermaritzburg police station, is alleged to have shot Naidoo on the night of November 2, 2014. He is charged with murder as well as defeating the ends of justice. It is alleged that Khuzwayo opened a false charge of attempted robbery in relation to the alleged incident. Naidoo died on November 22, after about ten days in a coma in ICU, and after undergoing several surgical operations.The State alleges that Naidoo, an IT engineer, was travelling along Loop Street with his fiance, Padayachee, and his brother Davelin, when Khuzwayo, driving a Toyota Auris, cut in front of their car, blocking their way.Naidoo allegedly jumped out of the vehicle and walked up to the Auris. He was shot after an alleged argument with Khuzwayo.Naicker, who lives in Retief Street, said she was in her home at about 10pm on the night of the shooting, when she heard a screech of tyres and voices arguing. She said she opened her gate to check what was happening, and saw a red car which had stopped in front of a silver car at the Retief/Loop Street robot. Naicker explained that the silver car (occupied by Naidoo, his fiance and brother) was parked straight at the robot at the pedestrian crossing , while the red car was parked in front of it, at an angle. Naicker said the red car cut in front of the silver car in such a way that the two cars formed a T-shape. Naicker explained that as she opened her gate, she heard a gunshot go off and heard a lady s voice. She said she saw three ladies in the red car, all dressed in church attire. She then saw the red car drive off. I ran to the silver car and saw a young man lying on the road. I called 10111 and held his hand, and told him help was on the way. I prayed with him until help arrived, Naicker said.She added that the shot man s fiance and brother were screaming and crying.Khuzwayo, meanwhile, denies that he cut off Naidoo s car, and alleges that it was the other way around, and that it was Naidoo s car that was parked in front of him. Naicker said this was not the case.Khuzwayo s advocate, Brad Osbourne, also put it to Naicker that Khuzwayo, who was on duty the night of the incident, was alone in the car when the shooting occurred.Naicker disputed this, saying she definitely saw at least three female passengers in Khuzwayo s car on that night.Khuzwayo has pleaded not guilty to the charges, claiming that he acted in self-defence. Khuzwayo maintains that he believes he was being hijacked by Naidoo when he discharged his firearm.The case has been adjourned to December 14.Daily News