Comedians are getting ready for the ultimate comedy battle as Comedy Central takes to the ring for the finale of Comedy Central Roast Battle (Parker’s Comedy & Jive) on 24 November 2016. The culmination of months of scorching jokes, barbed insults and sizzling one-liners, the Grand Finale of Comedy Central’s Roast Battle will be recorded in front of a live audience at Parker’s Comedy & Jive, Montecasino, Johannesburg on Thursday 24 November 2016. Roast Battle will premiere exclusively on Comedy Central (DStv channel 122) every Monday from 16 January 2017 at 21:00 CAT. Weighing in, with their eyes on the prize are six of South Africa’s top comedians including Mark Banks, Donovan Goliath, Dillan Oliphant, Thabiso Mhlongo, Richelieu Beaunoir & Dave Levinsohn (Mark Banks replaces Schalk Bezuidenhout, winner of episode 3 who is unable to make the Grand Finale due to filming commitments.)– prepared to fight to the death armed with killer insults, deadly one-liners and wounding witticisms in a bid to be crowned the ultimate Roast Battle champion. Going head-to-head for the ultimate champion’s belt, Mark Banks will battle Donovan Goliath, Dillan Oliphant combat Thabiso Mhlongo, and Richelieu Beaunoir will attempt to take down Dave Levinsohn in the first round. Three finalists will then compete in a 3-way “Roast-off”, in front of host and Roastmaster John Vlismas. Commented Dillon Khan, Senior Channel Director, Comedy Central Africa & Creative Services VIMN Africa, “The Roast Battle is a gladiatorial contest of wits and laughs that has captured the imagination of comedy fans.  The live shows have been crammed with laughter and hilarious moments and we are looking forward to the ultimate finale on Thursday 24 November.  With each of the finalists bringing their “A game” to the stage, it’s impossible to predict who will remain standing at the end, but we anticipate  hilariously epic and suspenseful night of comedy before the victor is declared.” Tickets for the show are available from Computicket, or on the door at Parker’s on 24 November. Tickets are priced ZAR 150.  Doors open at 18:00 CAT.  Over 18s only.  For more information about Comedy Central Roast Battle, please go to www.comedycentralafrica.com, like us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/comedycentralafrica or follow us on Twitter and Instagram @comedycentralAF.   To join the conversation on social media, please use the hashtags #CCLive.   IOL adapted from press release