'Amazulu', Amanda Black’s debut album, has finally dropped and is ready to be heard. “This album for me is very honest. I am a story teller, so I set out to write songs about how I felt, write songs about my stories and letting people in. It is storytelling, people will relate to what is genuine.” According to Amanda, the 14 track album encapsulates everyday stories where one can choose how to relate to it. “The album is about a journey. There are songs in there about me losing and finding myself, my knowing who I am and thriving, songs about heartbreak, love, being happy and comfortable in my skin; and all these are my stories. They are honest” We all came to know about the 23 year old song bird, real name Amanda Antony, when she participated on Idols season 11 but did not get the winner’s crown. “After falling out of Idols in October, I was back home until the big move to Joburg in January this year. From then on I was doing the gigs life, getting gigs, getting my name out there….pretty much trying everything I can, making cash and just to say, “hey guys, I still sing you know”. Five month later, she was approached by Ambitiouz Entertainment. The Xhosa girl who reign from Cape Town worked on the album with Sjava, the hit maker of Ek’seni who also assumed the role of a mentor. “The album fuses a lot of elements, like hip hop because I worked with hip hop producers, there is also Afro-pop, R ‘nB…man it is just fused. There is a lot of us, a whole team and we all put our heads together to create this music. “Not too long after signing, Amazulu the song dropped and now Amazulu the album is dropping. Life after Idols just happened. My career just took off and I am grateful,” she says. She is hopeful for the success of this album that draws inspiration from Brenda Fassie, Thandiswa Mazwai, Simphiwe Dana to name a few. “I have high expectations for this album, I put a lot of work into it. My entire team worked hard, sleepless nights, our hearts are in that album. “And it’s just been amazing, I am still pretty much in awe of what I have achieved already in such a short time actually.” When asked what the fans can expect from the album, she did a little excited dance before saying, “What you can expect is absolute magic, I say this not because I think I am so great but it really is what we put into it. There are songs there that are really close to my heart, if you just open up yourself to it as music, I don’t see how you will not love it.  The album is available to be purchased in stores as of today.  IOL