Faf du Plessis may not incite the raw hatred Australians have for England’s Stuart Broad, but the South African captain has certainly been the cause of much heartache for the Aussies, not only on the Australia cricket team, but on the nation as a whole. The trauma all started with a nearly eight-hour marathon batting display from Du Plessis on Test debut at the Adelaide Oval in 2011. Stoically he kept the Australians at bay with the determination and courage of a solider defending his country’s borders. In a sense that is exactly how Du Plessis views playing for his country. In his world South Africa’s honour is always at stake. It is this passion and commitment that he has brought to his leadership duties too. And here again the Aussies have been his primary source of prey. Du Plessis inflicted major psychological blows on the aura of Australia cricket when his Proteas ODI side charged to a maiden 5-0 whitewash prior to this trip. He has since further driven home the mental scarring with an historic Test series win now. There are few international captains in the world that has enjoyed such a stranglehold on the Australian psyche. The loathing of Du Plessis here, though, is almost a tattoo of respect from the local public for they have realised there is also a gifted cricket brain that lurks beneath the charisma. It is an attribute that we as South Africans are only now too starting to appreciate after earlier infatuations with ‘brand names’ such as AB de Villiers and Hashim Amla. Du Plessis is a born leader. The first evidence of this came to the fore when he was given the duties at school. It was next certified at franchise level and now the end product is shining on the international stage. “I would,” Du Plessis said in response to whether he would like to remain Test captain. “I’ve always said it. I love captaining. It’s something I really enjoy doing. It’s important to make sure that with all the stuff we talk about our culture, as a captain you live that and lead from the front. “I am enjoying it at the moment. However long it continues, I will always do it,” he added. The ruthlessness South Africa showed with the ball yesterday can only come about through calmness. This is infused by the captain on the field and the trust he has in charges, who are paying it back with interest. Du Plessis certainly marshalled his troops with authority Tuesday morning. Realising the dam wall was about to burst after a spell of sustained pressure, he was constantly seen running up to his bowlers, telling them to remain patient and to stick to their disciplines for the success will come. He didn’t mind taking his time with field placings too for the exact science was in the detail. It was noted by none other than former Australian captain Ian Chappell. “The captaincy has been terrific. South Africa would be well advised to keep Faf du Plessis on as captain because he’s a guy that is buoyed by that responsibility,” Chappell said. “The results have been speaking for themselves for the past four or five months, since we started against New Zealand,” says Du Plessis. “This team has been very close to exceptional. There haven’t been many things we’ve done wrong. We’ve consistent. We are not relying on one or two players. All 11 are putting our hands up at different times in the series, and that’s what you want. Off the field we’re very happy, and we want to improve and we want to get better. “If you keep looking to do those things off the field the chances are that you might get it right on the field. Fortunately for us at the moment we’re getting it right. “Now it’s important to stay with it and stay nice and humble and don’t think the world has changed now that we have won a few series, but to keep working hard and make sure we can get better. Because we as a team want to go special places.” Du Plessis called a team huddle after the warm-ups yesterday. He was seen to give an animated pre-day talk. After the victory was achieved he once again called the team to the middle of the field for the traditional celebratory war cry. Once again he spoke passionately and his charges listened attentively. It is not hard to grasp that Du Plessis is the fulcrum around which this highly- successful Proteas machine is operating on the moment. The Star