Thabo 'Tbo Touch' Molefe has received the honourary title of Ambassador of the Carnival Calabar and festivals for his meritous work to the field of arts, creativity and humanity. The Cross River State Carnival commission and the organisers of the Calabar conferred the award to the local radio pioneer and the owner of Touchwarwick wines. The certificate award was presented by Her Excellency The Ambassador of Nigeria, Mrs Uche Ajulu-Akeke, Chairman of Carnival Commission, Honourable Mr Gabe Onah. The momentous event coincided with the launch of the Miss Africa Calabar 2016 launch at The Capital Hill in Sandton. “When you plant lemons and you reap watermelons, is to show you sometimes in life there's a room for a miracle. If you ask me what I was thinking 12 years ago, making noise about uniting Africa through music in a radio platform which was an hour. “We've moved from just been an hour to three, look at the culture how artists can come into this continent, into this country. Today is the true affirmation that our wealth is not in our balance sheet, in the bank, our wealth is in the relationships we make with people, “ said Touch. “Your Excellency, I receive this (honourary) with the highest form of gratitude and I do assure you I will represent Calabar and Cross River State in this country the best that I can through the help of my brothers like Ndaba Mandela, the rest of the team that we have. I think Africa is possible and it's the new super power”. In addition Her Excellency said “I would like to announce that Tbo Touch is permitted to come to the residence when he wants without permission or phone call” Ndaba Mandela, the grandson of former president Mandela and CEO, Founder & Chairman of the Africa Rising Foundation is also part of this initiative. Humanitarian and philanthropist Matthew Mensah was the host of the event. Miss Africa Calabar 2016 aims to promote unity and celebrate African beauty. Thirty contestants from across the continent will compete for the coveted crown on November 26, in Calabar, Cross River State, Nigeria. The total value of the prizes is 25 000 US Dollars. Celebrity judges include renowned fashion designers David Tlale from South Africa and leading lady of African haute couture fashion Deola Sagoe from Nigeria.  The event will see perfomances from Nigeria's top artists, multi-award winning musical acts Kiss Danial, Tekno and Victoria Kiwanis. DSTV's Big Brother host I.K. and actress Ghanaian actress Juliet Ibrahim will be hosting the event in November. To add to his accolades Vuzu TV honoured Touch with V.V.V.V.V-IP Award, how cool is that! Congragulations Mr Molefe!  The carnival festival will commence on December 1 till 31 December in Nigeria.  IOL