When asked about a lack of creativity on attack, after bemoaning a number of missed chances in the 20-18 nightmare in Florence, Springbok coach Allister Coetzee’s response encapsulated the real problem that has engulfed the team. “Credit to their defence. Credit to the defence. And they didn’t just have a good shape on defence, they were quite physical in their hits as well. And it does make it a bit difficult in wet conditions,” Coetzee remarked, the octaves in his voice typically rising with every word. “If they had scored tries from running rugby, then I could understand and say ‘There was definitely something wrong with our attack’. But Patrick Lambie should’ve surely scored in the right-hand corner. Warren Whiteley and Francois Venter on the openside, with that huge overlap, surely… “In Test-match rugby, it’s like you build and roll on when you have points on the board, and we never had scoreboard pressure really to take it away from the Italians.” Immediately, Coetzee didn’t find fault with what the Boks did – the never-ending rolling mauls that were going nowhere, or the predictable one-off runners inside the opposition 22. He rather looked at what the Italians did to prevent the Boks from finishing those chances. But isn’t that the whole challenge of rugby, to break down defences? What did Coetzee expect, that the Azzurri would just lie down and die? As much as the Bok defence has been a problem in 2016, it is their lack of spark on attack that has held them back and contributed to the seven defeats out of 11 Tests. And we’re not just talking about ball-in-hand or “running rugby”, as Coetzee put it. How many times have we heard the coach say that the scrums and lineouts have operated well? Yet, the Boks have hardly mauled this season. And when they tried to in Florence, they couldn’t even overpower a powder-puff Italian pack whose locks were a former Boland No 8 in Dries van Schalkwyk and Marco Fuser, both of whom have played 15 Tests or less. Loosehead Sami Panico played his fifth Test and hooker Ornel Gega his seventh. The November tour was about starting from “base zero”, the term that has been used often by the Boks lately. Instead, Coetzee has gone to the traditional Bok base of “suffocate and strangle”. It may be too late to save his job, but the least the coach can do is throw away his current playbook and start over in Cardiff against Wales. Pick the likes of Rohan Janse van Rensburg, Jamba Ulengo, Sergeal Petersen and Uzair Cassiem. Allow Nizaam Carr, Elton Jantjies and Lionel Mapoe to play their natural games. Get Vincent Koch out of the flyhalf position! Start Bongi Mbonambi instead of Adriaan Strauss at hooker. Maybe the fresh blood can bring some hope for 2017. No matter what happens in Cardiff, it can’t get any worse than it is at the moment… w Ashfak Mohamed is the Cape Sports Hub digital   producer.  This season, every time the Springboks walked off the pitch with their heads down, I couldn’t feel bad for them. I felt that way because I thought that they had orchestrated their own demise. And that maybe, just maybe, they needed that defeat to open their eyes. I was frustrated. And it got to the point where a small part of me actually hoped they would lose. Not because I was secretly a die-hard All Blacks, Wallabies or England supporter, but because I knew that something drastic had to happen for the relevant parties to realise their flaws. And that drastic thing has now happened. It happened in Florence, against a team who had been successful in only one match in seven Tests this season. Until Saturday, that is. When George Clancy blew the final whistle, it was like I hadn’t witnessed the minutes leading up to the 80th one. That was how stunned I was. Of course I knew it could happen, especially when Italy went over for a late try (which wasn’t awarded), but it just seemed too foreign a concept to even consider. Without even thinking about it, the possibility of a very late turnaround for the Boks still seemed like …well, a possibility. So when that whistle went, for the first time this season I was not only shocked, but also hurt. Hurt because I realised that the once-great Springbok has fallen. Fallen so hard that it will take immense effort to get it back up. Allister Coetzee’s time should be up now. Yes, he had only two months to prepare for his first Test in charge. Yes, there have been many injuries. But he has confused the public AND his players for too long with his contradicting statements in terms of his non-existent game plan and his reluctance to adapt and change. Why, when they put on the Springboks jersey, have quality players looked like amateurs? There are a great number of players who have performed brilliantly at Currie Cup and Super Rugby level, and even abroad, but when they step onto the field for Coetzee, they look clueless. He has persisted with his “process-driven” attitude that has gotten them nowhere. He has continued to emphasis that getting a win wasn’t the goal, working towards the end-product was. Look where that got him. He has been a firm believer in continuity, which was simply picking players who have shown over and over again that they weren’t the best option. And he has simply refused to expand his pool with form players who deserve to be in the Bok squad. Allister Coetzee is not the only one to blame. His (Saru-appointed) coaching staff have also been badly shown up. The Springboks need to start from scratch. They need new mentors who are able to see the bigger picture. From game plan, to rewarding form, to transformation. Because Allister Coetzee has done virtually nothing to take these aspects forward. w Wynona Louw is the Cape Sports Hub rugby writer 