Durban - There is still time to plan your deserved school holidays, whether you are a teacher, parent or student, examination stress can take a toll on all of us. So, live a little more and stress a lot less and bask in the joys of school holiday fun.  1. Acrobranch Park - Joburg, Cape Town and Pretoria An outdoor experience that can be enjoyed by adults and children. One can experience two hours of fun and adventure, with activities such as zipline, tree-top adventures, acro-bungee and lots more. There are five parks across South Africa (Gauteng and Western Province) with a fair price range for all outdoor activities.  A photo posted by Acrobranch Adventure Park (@acrobranch_jhb) on Aug 7, 2014 at 6:24am PDT   2. CityRock - Joburg and Cape Town Whether you are a beginner or a pro at rock climbing, there is a rock wall suited for you. Mums can work on their flexibility and cardio at the Yoga area, while dads enjoy coffee at the coffee shop. If you are the adventurous type, then be sure to make a stop.  A photo posted by CityROCK CPT (@cityrock_cpt) on Sep 28, 2016 at 10:49am PDT   3. Umgeni Steam Train Railway - Durban A journey on a steam train passing through the valley of 1 000 hills is set to give you goosebumps. This train ride is no ordinary one with its vintage display and rich history, both young and old would enjoy the adventure ride with food outlets and stalls at the stations.  A photo posted by Jarryd Watson (@____rod_) on Aug 5, 2015 at 11:44pm PDT   4. uShaka Marine World - Durban Children and adults can be sure to bask in uShaka's variety of fun activities and adventures. With exciting wet 'n wild adventures, dangerous creatures, chimp and zee rope adventures and the uShaka beach- the list of fun is endless.  A photo posted by uShaka Marine World (@ushakamarineworld) on Aug 31, 2016 at 12:11am PDT   5. Planet Kids - Cape Town As it is conveniently situated between the mountains and Muizenberg, Planet Kids offers space-themed activities and games for children of all ages such as problem solving activities and indoor adrenaline sports. For two hours of fun, kids pay R50 while parents can enter for free.  6. Cradle of Humankind - Maropeng A fun and educational trip for the whole family. An underwater boat ride takes you through the history of the Earth's creation. The cost for one adult is R 165 and a child between the ages of 10 and 14 pay R97.  A photo posted by Sinethemba Snakes Foba (@sinethemba_snakes) on Sep 29, 2016 at 12:33pm PDT   7. The Ricksha bus tour - Durban Hop aboard Durban's well-known Ricksha bus taking in a scenic view of what the city has to offer. Driving through the beachfront , uShaka and along Blue Lagoon at a cost of R50 for kids and R100 for adults.  A photo posted by Frank Goveia (@frankly2be_me) on Nov 18, 2014 at 4:47am PST  IOL