Johannesburg The Office of the ANC Chief Whip in Parliament has welcomed the resignation of Mbulaheni Maguvhe as a SABC board member.Maguvhe was the sole remaining South African Broadcasting Corporation board member and its chairman. President Jacob Zuma received and accepted Maguvhe's resignation on Monday.&quot;While we regret that Prof Maguvhe's conscience took excruciatingly longer to speak to him, thereby causing further damage to the corporation's governance and frustrating Parliamentary intervention, we are confident that his exit will speed up the process of addressing the leadership crisis at SABC,&quot; Jackson Mthembu's office said in a statement on Monday.&quot;It is unfortunate that Prof Maguvhe chose to sacrifice his personal reputation and professional integrity by putting his selfish personal interests ahead of those of South Africans, who are the shareholders of the SABC.&quot;The unacceptable obstinacy of board members who remain stumbling blocks to resolving corporate governance problems is a lesson which Parliament must learn from going forward. The Broadcasting Act might need to be revisited and tightened to ensure that inquorate Boards or individuals are not allowed to hold such important public institution to ransom.&quot;With Maguvhe's departure, we will now await Parliament's conclusion of the inquiry, which may necessitate the swift appointment of the interim board. The outcome of the inquiry and lessons learned will enrich the process of finding a suitably qualified members of the new board,&quot; the statement said.The once defiant Unisa professor had vowed not to step down after one after another of his board members resigned, with two of them tending their resignations during a recent committee sitting in Parliament which sought to address the issues at the public broadcaster. Maguvhe, his legal team and senior SABC executives then walked out of the official start of the inquiry by Parliament's ad hoc committee into the affairs of the SABC earlier this month, saying that the process was not fair. Maguvhe, who is blind, had through his legal team, requested from the committee that reports of the Auditor-General, Public Protector and Independent Communications Authority of South Africa be translated to braille, as not doing so could &quot;jeopardise him&quot;. This was given short thrift by the multi-party committee though, which said he had been given ample time to prepare adequately for the hearings. In the end, the committee had to summon him to appear at the hearing. The committee heard seven days of explosive testimony about the &quot;rot&quot; that had beset the broadcaster, with MPs vowing to dig deeper when it resumes its work early next year. MPs on the committee expressed deep concern at the belligerent behaviour of those running the State-owned broadcaster and the influence of the controversial Hlaudi Motsoeneng. Maguvhe though, told the committee that he believed Motsoeneng was doing a &quot;sterling job&quot; and defended his decision to vote for Motsoeneng's permanent appointment as chief operating officer (COO) in July 2014. On day one of the inquiry, Maguvhe, who was the only board member who has refused to resign in the face of public pressure to dissolve the board, led a walkout of SABC executives from the committee and refused to participate in the inquiry. MPs forced him to answer to Parliament by issuing a summons, failing which he could be held in contempt of Parliament. It was something parliamentarian Steve Swart, an African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP) MP for over 17 years, said was unprecedented. MPs on the committee also expressed deep concern at the belligerent behaviour of those running the State-owned broadcaster after it uncovered the possible doctoring of documents sent to the committee. In similar fashion to some of her former colleagues, former SABC board member Rachel Kalidass had testified about how Communications Minister Faith Muthambi had exerted undue influence to ensure the appointment of Motsoeneng at a board meeting on July 7, 2014. But it was when Kalidass read out the minutes of that meeting that MPs noticed that her copy of the minutes did not match those sent to the committee, which had to issue a summons to gain access to the papers. MPs suspected the minutes, which were not certified or signed, sent to them by former company secretary Theresa Geldenhuys, may have been &quot;doctored&quot; and Parliament's lawyers have been instructed to pore over the minutes and ensure its authenticity. MPs now also want audio recordings of those meetings. Speaking to the African News Agency (ANA) after last Thursday's proceedings, ANC MP Makhosi Khoza said if the minutes were indeed doctored, there would be repercussions. &quot;People will have to know that if you going to be submitting information to parliamentarians, you dare give us the wrong information because there will be consequences,&quot; a visibly irate Khoza said. DA MP Phumzile van Damme said though MPs were given shocking accounts of what was happening at the broadcaster, she believed there was more to the SABC's woes. &quot;We thought things were bad but we didn't realise things were this bad. I think we've only just begun to scratch the surface ,&quot; said van Damme. Swart also said he was particular perturbed by the threats sent to journalists after they were fired, then reinstated for their resistance to Motsoeneng making editorial decisions like the banning of airing footage on violent protests. News that one of the journalists who testified before inquiry was sent an SMS reading: &quot;Traitors protecting your white friends in Parliament who started this, telling lies about your comrades. You are warned, we don't kill blacks but sit and watch the blood flow,&quot; came as a shock to Swart. &quot;These are genuine whistleblowers. We've got whistleblowers protection the Protected Disclosures Act and then for them to be threatened further after giving evidence here, this is something I've never seen in Parliament,&quot; said Swart. &quot;I've been here many years and I've never seen an institution walking out of Parliament like the SABC did. I've never seen us having to issue summonses. I've never seen an interdict being brought against members of Parliament and Parliament because of a perceived biasness.&quot; Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) MP Fana Mokoena described what he heard over the first week of the inquiry as proof that the rot at the broadcaster had become a cancer. &quot;We need to send out a message that the SABC is not a playground for people to loot and do as they please. This Hlaudi needs to go to jail. I'm strongly of that opinion,&quot; said Mokoena. &quot;The rot has just become extremely uncomfortable now. It's been chaotic for a very long time and now it's become heavily politicised, so it's a cancer.&quot; The inquiry is set to resume on January 10, following which the committee will make recommendations to the National Assembly to clean up the mess at the SABC. African News Agency and IOL