Cape Town Police members are in shock at the horrific murder of one of their colleagues, who went missing on Christmas Eve and was found after allegedly giving two prostitutes a lift &nbsp;who claimed to be stranded.Sources reveal warrant Officer Deon Dumas, 57, of Malmesbury had been stripped, bound at the hands and feet, stabbed in the head and stoned to death. The discovery was made on Tuesday morning in an abandoned building in Witsand, Atlantis, 35km from his home.Cops arrested two suspects who led them to the body. The unmarried officer was last seen alive on Saturday at 4pm, when he delivered a gift to his mother s doctor in Malmesbury. Police spokesman Captain FC van Wyk confirmed: The body of the 57-year-old warrant officer of Malmesbury police station has been found in Atlantis. He was reported missing after he failed to return home on Christmas Eve. On Monday morning at about 8am, two suspects were found in possession of the victim s vehicle, a white BMW, and after they were questioned, they led police to a location in Atlantis where the body was discovered. The circumstances surrounding his death are still being investigated and the suspects remain in custody. A police source in Malmesbury believes Dumas was led into a trap. It is believed that the deceased had offered the two prostitutes a lift when they claimed they were stranded, said the insider. They led him to Witsand where three males then came out of the bushes and dragged him out of the car. They stripped him, took him to one of three abandoned buildings in the area and killed him, taking his car with them. The women then led cops to Dumas car, a white BMW 318, parked in an open garage at a house.When contacted by Daily Voice on Tuesday, Dumas brother Andre said the family was in shock. My brother was an amazing person and would not hurt a fly. He lived alone and had no wife or kids, but we knew something was wrong when he did not pitch on Christmas, Andre said. He was a loving person and we'll miss him terribly. Daily Voice