Durban - Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube is taking a hard line against poor governance, saying mayors and councillors will be held personally liable to pay out of their own pockets if they cannot account for irregular expenditure.Dube-Ncube spoke to recently-elected mayors and municipal managers at the Pietermaritzburg City hall on Monday in a Munimec, an intergovernmental forum where Cogta MECs meet with mayors. Dube-Ncube said the municipal audit by the auditor-general had found that there had been an overall decline in the number of municipalities receiving clean audits.Only 12 municipalities received clean audits this year compared with 18 in the 2014/2015 audit.Five municipal entities - Durban Marine Theme Park, ICC Durban, Ugu South Coast Tourism, Ilembe Management Development Enterprise and the Hibiscus Coast Development Agency - also received clean audits in the 2015/2016 financial year, as opposed to four in the 2014/2015 financial year, bringing the provincial total to 17 clean audits.Four municipalities, namely eThekwini, Umdoni, Umtshezi and Nquthu, were still awaiting their audit outcomes. UnqualifiedMsunduzi Municipality received a qualified audit while Ugu District Municipality and Zululand District municipalities received unqualified audits.Dube-Ncube said she was not pleased with the audit outcomes and she expected the mayors to take responsibility. Let s take the case of wasteful expenditure, many officials engage in wasteful expenditure and simply go to council and ask for that wasteful expenditure to be regularised. The council should investigate that wasteful expenditure. They cannot just regularise it. Councillors who fail to do that (investigate) will be individually responsible to pay back that money, she said. Read also: Municipal audits: AG delivers some good newsShe also said a meeting would be held next year where mayors would have to account for what they had done regarding issues raised by the auditor-general. I want you to present on what you are doing to fix the situation, on issues where there had been wasteful expenditure. I want you to come and present on who has been held accountable and what steps have been taken against the individuals who are responsible, and who has been issued with letters as to why they should not be suspended. Dube-Ncube said that while she understood that most of the mayors were new, it did not matter, as they inherited both the successes and the failures of the previous councils. Some mayors took issue with being held responsible for audit outcomes they had inherited.THE MERCURY