Story by Nwabisa Masiza and picture taken by Henk Kruger Cape Town - The men and women in blue were put through their paces as the police launched their Back to Basics initiative on policing and fitness levels of officers in the Western Cape. “We are implementing these key programmes while we recently honoured another significant day, World Aids Day on December 1, which affords us an opportunity to show our support to the people living with HIV/Aids and to remember those who had lost their lives to the disease,” said Lieutenant-General Bonang Mgwenya. Some of the day’s activities included a fun walk at 5am, aerobic exercises, a 5km walk, a martial arts display, and the handing over of a fitness policy scroll. “This day is meant to remind the public of the importance of doing the right things, and doing those things means taking care of ourselves and put ourselves in the position where we can also take care of the communities we are serving in the province,” Mgwenya said. “This day has been highly successful since we started in the morning. “We have seen great support from people and there is a lot of potential we have seen from the members. “As today’s focus is on physical fitness, 
we are saying to the public that it’s important to have balance in terms of being physically fit, mentally fit, and also being spiritually fit.” Provincial police commissioner Lieutenant-General Khombinkosi Jula said police resources would be adjusted to priority areas and that the police need to be fit to help ensure their safety. “Also, with the problems we have recently experienced, in which some of our fellow colleagues have been killed, all that we are saying is that let us remember there are certain basic things we should be doing and that is basically another highlight of the day. “We believe we will go out and ensure that those who are on a campaign to attack our members are going to be brought 
to book and will face the consequences for the damage they are doing,” Jula said. Police will be regrouping and focusing on areas such as informal settlements, shopping malls, and gang-ridden areas, he said. Jula added that those deviating from the law would also face consequences. Cape Argus