Just ask Lebogang Manyama who found plenty of time on his hands while recuperating after breaking three toes last season. When he was fit again, Mpumalanga Black Aces had sold its Premier Soccer League (PSL) franchise to businessman John Comitis who renamed the club Cape Town City and relocated it to the Mother City. “Luckily for me the team wasn’t bought by a stranger because I have worked with John before and I know what he’s like,” says the former Ajax Cape Town and SuperSport United midfielder.    “He welcomed me with an injury - out for seven or eight months and they make me captain. Obviously that boosts your morale and I am grateful for the support.” He is just repaying the faith the new owners and coach Eric Tinkler have shown in him, Manyama adds. And scoring seven goals in 12 Absa Premiership matches as well as helping the team book a date with SuperSport United in Saturday’s Telkom Knockout final is some way to parade your appreciation. “I have had problems with injuries, but the most recent one was the one that made me grow. I had time to think and I could have rushed back to play towards the end of the previous season, but I decided against it,” Manyama reveals. “I had to be a 100 percent first and then start the new season.” He could have easily used the words “start with a bang” as it is evident that is what he and his teammates have done.  Not only are City in a cup final so soon after the change in ownership and scenery, they have left the usual suspects in the championship title race astounded as they occupy the top of the table.    While neutrals will be eager to see just how long City can sustain their impressive run, some attention will also be directed Manyama’s way. His talent is not questionable, but there’s not been any consistency in the 26-year-old’s career, part of the reason why SuperSport eventually sold him to Black Aces even after they had beaten the mighty Kaizer Chiefs to his signature. “I have set out to improve on my game. It’s not just all about the captaincy making me a better player,” Manyama says. “I told myself that when I come back from the injury I would just want to enjoy football. "Yes, when you are a captain you have to lead in a certain way, but fortunately for me there are a whole lot of people in the team who have been captains before and I am learning from them because I have never been one. "You look at guys like Robin Johannes, Shu-Aib Walters and Vincent Kobola, who have been in the game for a long time. I learn from them.”  @superjourno   @extrastrongsa  The Star