Durban Lifesavers are preparing for a tough job with rip tides and soaring temperatures, and Durban police have vowed strict treatment for people who drink in public.There is also going to be a clampdown on car guards who have allegedly been selling permits that allow vehicles into the beachfront area. On Friday, the eThekwini deputy head of Metro (head of operations), assistant commissioner, Steve Middleton, confirmed: At applicable points, we'll be searching vehicles and where alcohol is found, it will either be confiscated or those bringing it will be asked to leave the area. There will be many roadblocks where people found to be under the influence of alcohol will summarily be arrested. He said that metro police were aware that car guards and others are selling permits, and we have taken measures to address this .Life Saving SA spokesman James Ross has urged New Year beach goers to swim in protected waters, while those drinking alcohol should not swim. This weekend is particularly dangerous because rip tides are expected during a spring tide. We urge the public to stay between the red-and-yellow flags,&quot; he said. Almost all drownings occur because either people are drinking, swimming outside supervised areas, or those drowned are children who are not supervised. Combine these factors and it s a recipe for disaster. With hot conditions expected and the rip tides, it s going to be a tough job this weekend, said Ross. The chairman of South Beach UIP (Urban Improvement Precinct), Ebrahim Vadachia, said the major challenge faced by beachfront residents was overcrowding, while he described traffic control into the beachfront over the festive season as inefficient . Prior to the festive season, plans were discussed at length, but have not been implemented as envisaged, he said. Scrutiny at the booms has not been managed effectively. There have been reinforcements brought in which have alleviated some of the problems. Generally, the crowds have been well behaved so far this season. We are hoping that by-laws will be applied, and we will all do our best to keep the peace, said Vadachia. KwaDukuza Municipality, under which Ballito and Blythedale beaches fall, is gearing up for a busy weekend. Municipal spokesman Sphelelo Ngobese said they had deployed 68 permanent and seasonal lifeguards to bathing beaches. About 81 men and women in brown have also been deployed to monitor activities on our beaches and parking precincts, he said. We will be monitoring people at the beach to ensure we don t end up in the same situation we experienced on December 16, when a man was stabbed and could not receive medical attention because of a misguided parking arrangement. Three thousand people converged on Blythedale Beach on the day the man was stabbed. Emergency workers could not reach him because the roads were gridlocked, and revellers were allegedly unruly and obstructed the paramedics. The man died from his wounds. To curb the consumption of liquor, we will implement a 24-hour roadblock schedule that will include checking for alcohol at the entrances of our beaches, he said.On the KZN South Coast, Ray Nkonyeni Municipality (formerly the Hibiscus Coast) spokesman Simon April said they were ready for the New Year weekend. We have a clear seasonal plan which includes the recruitment of more than 50 reservists to ensure the safety of all those who will be around the South Coast. We have made provision for overtime to ensure that services are provided accordingly, he said. Independent on Saturday