Of course, fans will fondly remember her for the characters she has inhabited: from Katlego Rathebe in e.tv’s popular youth soapie Backstage to Ruth (Ring of Lies). Well, you get the picture. And now she has been cast as one of the new faces in the third season of Mzansi Magic’s Saints and Sinners. The actress, who was in Durban when we chatted, was catching her breath after a frenzied shooting schedule. Not that she’s complaining about working. In commanding such respect in the industry, she isn’t short of offers. In fact, many of her projects were at the behest of Roberta Durrant, who is a respected creative director/producer and showrunner of television and film in South Africa. Cele says: “You know when we finished Zabalaza, I got a call from Roberta about a telenovela, Ring of Lies. It was a bit hectic. I was doing Zabalaza in the morning and, around lunch time, I went to shoot my scenes for Ring of Lies.” She continues: “It was exciting because this character, Ruth, is so different from Gasta. But, hey man, I worked so hard. "I sometimes went two or three days without seeing the younger one (meaning the baby in the family).” She clarifies: “We always look for jobs. And once the universe blesses you, what more do you want?” Ring of Lies was set against the backdrop of the boxing world. The narrative, as the title suggests, is bolstered by sex, secrets and deception. Recalling her character’s journey, she reveals: “She was a traditional woman. Her husband was a well-known boxer who was also a womaniser. "She struggled to fall pregnant and when she eventually did, she lost the baby at birth. "And so she switched babies. Twenty-one years later, a woman moves next door to her and they soon become the closest of friends. "Eventually, the truth comes out and everyone is disappointed as she is a stand-up member in the community. She gets arrested. Fortunately, for us, there is a season two coming” This brings us to her getting cast as Sibongile “Bongi” Nene in SABC3’s Isidingo. Cele recalls: “Roberta called me again. I remember having a chat with her, saying that I wanted to do more. "I wanted to produce. I was given a chance to direct in Zabalaza. Then she called about Isidingo. "And Mzansi Magic have been so good to me, I wasn’t sure about doing it.” However, after learning more about the character, she conceded. She adds: “I fell in love with the character. But we have not wrapped up this character so I don’t know if it’s going to clash with Saints and Sinners.” Confident nonetheless that everything will work out, she expands on her role as Celiwe. Cele reveals: “She’s traditional. In a way, she is more similar to me as Baby. I’m very committed in my marriage and I can be very submissive. Celiwe is married to Mamohato’s (Nthathi Moshesh) ex-husband.” Trouble starts brewing in her happy marriage when Mamohato arrives on their doorstep, fresh out of prison. She continues: “Celiwe’s got a very good heart. And she believes in second chances. So when Mamohato needs a place to stay, she helps her only to later find that she has a different motive.” With her trust broken, Celiwe soon realises that she’s been replaced and that when trouble starts brewing Of course, Cele, being the consummate actress that she is, ensured that she got the nuances right to endear the character to viewers. Several years back Moshesh recommended Cele for Home Affairs when she was unable to do it. Now the two are working alongside each other for the first time. She says: “We have had so many beautiful moments shooting scenes. We just gelled. She is such a professional. And I’m also a Saints and Sinners fan.” Cele adds: “People thought the show was finished with Mamohato going to prison. But you cannot bury that woman. People must hold on to those seats because it is a beautifully written season with new characters. "And, no, they didn’t lose the plot. It’s getting better and better!” And while fans prepare for another exhilarating season of drama, revenge, betrayal and moral dilemmas, Cele is looking, at some point, to realise her potential as a producer. As someone who has always pursued her dreams with unrestrained passion, it is only a matter of time before this happens.  Saints and Sinners 3 will air on Mzansi Magic (DStv channel 161) on Sunday, January 8, at 8pm.