Cape Town - Capetonians are still falling short of the water usage target set by the City of Cape Town after two months of Level 3 water restrictions. The average daily consumption of residents remains a concern despite numerous appeals for residents to cut down.By last week the average daily consumption was 864million litres, against a target of 800million litres.Level 3 water restrictions were implemented in November after below normal rainfall in winter.Mayco member for utility services Ernest Sonnenberg said the overuse of hosepipes for irrigation was part of the problem. The restrictions are clear - hosepipes are not allowed, except when borehole or well-point water, spring water, rain harvested or grey water is being used. And even then, such property owners must register their borehole or well-point and display signage prominently for all to see. It also concerns me that so many people continue to feign ignorance when this issue has been communicated over and over. Residents are also reminded that stepped-up tariffs came into effect from this month, which means those who have not scaled back on consumption will receive more expensive water bills. What is encouraging is that enquiries about water restrictions have nearly doubled in the last week. I m hoping that it means more people are becoming aware of the situation and want to make sure they re on the right side of the law. Sonnenberg thanked residents who had abided by the restrictions and go the extra mile to curb their consumption . I urge them to help us spread the message and help raise awareness. We still have a number of very hot months in the offing and it is crucial that we save as much water as possible. MEC for Environmental Affairs and Development Planning Anton Bredell said dam levels had fallen to below 50percent as water usage remained high. There are large numbers of visitors to the Western Cape for the holiday season that add to the demand for water. We would caution the public to assist us in using water responsibly. Bredell said the water situation in the Western Cape is not yet a crisis, despite five areas having been declared disaster areas over the past year. We are constantly monitoring the situation and municipalities are implementing additional measures. Cape Argus