The 22 year old founder of The Threaded Man Siya Beyile is making fashion headlines! Today  Siya Beyile lives a life of luxury and glamour but the road leading up to his success wasn't without trials and tribulations. A photo posted by Siyabonga Beyile (@siyabeyile) on Nov 27, 2016 at 9:59pm PST Being unable to complete his BA in Fashion at the prestigious Fashion Design School & Retail Education Institute LISOF due to the financial burden his parents endured, Siya got his big break when he was given an internship position for SA Fashion Week which eventually saw him working with trend expert and founder of Flux Trends, Dion Chang. READ: PICS: SA Style Awards This proved that everyone needs to start somewhere but the desire to make your dream a reality eventually takes precedence above all. The secret is to find your passion and be the master of your craft. A photo posted by Siyabonga Beyile (@siyabeyile) on Nov 26, 2016 at 11:13pm PST The mistake that many of us make is that we allow ourselves to be limited by society's idea of what 'success' is suppose to look like. This principle however doesn't apply to #Influencers and definitely doesn't apply to Beyile. READ: LISTEN: AKA drops new single A person of influence doesn't necessarily wait for opportunities to come their way instead they create them and in turn pave their own way by using their creativity, talent and artistic ability. In fashion Siya doesn't follow trends, he creates them; making him the ultimate #Influencers to watch. A photo posted by Siyabonga Beyile (@siyabeyile) on Nov 16, 2016 at 4:01am PST "As an influencer, I am an early adopter of certain trends, through my style I can introduce new trends to the market and make them suitable for brands. Fashion is about communicating who you are and what you believe in", says Beyile. Beyile's passion for clothing is rooted in his culture. Growing up he was always proud of how the men and women were dressed around him. What interest him even more, was the ability to portray a story through clothing. A photo posted by Siyabonga Beyile (@siyabeyile) on Oct 31, 2016 at 12:52am PDT You must be a threaded young man who not only looks good but is held together by the right things, such as manners and respect. This is one of the teachings Siya's mother instilled in him growing up. From a tender age, Beyile always had big dreams about making his mark in the world of fashion and has made huge strides in creating a fashionable brand for modern African men with a love for fashion and unique personal style. The Threaded Man is just that! A photo posted by Siyabonga Beyile (@siyabeyile) on Oct 25, 2016 at 5:25am PDT Beyile's secret to the success of The Threaded Man is that he spends time in trend forecasting by studying local and international trends and filtering what will work for different brands. Original story by The Young Independents