After initially claiming to be the “whistleblower” on the match-fixing domestic T20 cricket scandal, former Proteas opener Alviro Petersen has now been banned for two years by Cricket South Africa on Wednesday after admitting to 13 breaches of the anti-corruption code.  Petersen has admitted to four counts of failing to disclose details of an approach to engage in corrupt conduct; four of failing to disclose evidence of another participant breaching the code; four of failing to cooperate with the investigators by not providing accurate and complete information; and one of concealing and destroying information relevant to the investigation.  Petersen has, though, been pardoned in charges relating to fixing or contriving to fix any matches and accepting or offering any bribes.  The former Highveld Lions captain is the sixth South African cricketer to be banned since Gulam Bodi was revealed as the “intermediary” between illegal betting agencies believed to be based in the Asian sub-continent and the local players attempting to fix elements of matches in last season’s T20 Challenge.  Bodi (20) along with Thami Tsolekile (12), Ethy Mbhalati (10), Pumi Matshikwe (10) and Jean Symes (7) were banned for between seven and 20 years for their roles in the on-going saga.  “Our aim to deal thoroughly with any form of corruption in the game remains steadfast and we will do everything in our power to protect the integrity of the game,” CSA Chief Executive Haroon Lorgat commented in a statement on Wednesday.  “Alviro has realised his mistakes and has acknowledged contravening the Code. He is obliged under the Code to have disclosed various approaches that were made to him to engage in corrupt activities.  “While having provided certain information to the investigators he had also withheld and concealed certain material information, such as the meetings with Bodi and certain fixers. This was directly relevant to the investigation and hence why we have imposed a two-year ban which Alviro accepts.”  The ban in terms of CSA’s Anti-Corruption Code prevents Petersen from participating in, or being involved in any capacity in, any international or domestic match or any other kind of function, event or activity (other than authorized anti-corruption education or rehabilitation programmes) that is authorized, organized, sanctioned, recognized or supported in any way by CSA, the ICC, a National Cricket Federation or any member of a National Cricket Federation.  The ban will run for two years from 12 November 2016, which is the date that Petersen was provisionally suspended from participating in all cricketing activities following the notice of charge issued to him by CSA. He was still set to play for the Lions this season while he was also a regular commentator for the SABC during the home summer and ran a cricket foundation.  Petersen had earlier maintained his innocence, stressing that he was “merely playing along” in order to not arouse any suspicion from the relevant betting role-players.  But after being served his two-year ban on Wednesday, Petersen said that he accepts that he needs “to take personal responsibility for my actions”.  “I would like to apologize to my family, friends, the public who are fans of the game of cricket, my teammates, Gauteng cricket, Lions cricket and especially to Cricket South Africa for my actions. At the time that the meetings with Bodi and the fixers happened, I never had any intention of fixing matches or taking money,” Petersen stated.  “I now deeply regret having participated in these meetings and not to have immediately reported them to the authorities as I am obliged to do. I understand that I need to take personal responsibility for my actions and I accept the punishment that CSA has imposed on me.  “I hope that other players will learn from my experience and be better prepared if they find themselves in the situation that I was in, and that my punishment will serve as a deterrent. I also want to thank my family, friends and my legal team for their unwavering support and guidance during the last few months,” he added.  The CSA investigation has involved many months of gathering evidence and co-operating closely with the ICC’s Anti-Corruption Unit as a result of the international nature of match-fixing activities. The investigators have also engaged with the South African Police Services, the Hawks and independent forensic experts during the course of the investigation.  The Independent Chairperson of CSA’s Anti-Corruption Unit and former Judge President of the North and South Gauteng High Courts, Bernard Ngoepe, said: “We are still finalizing certain aspects of the investigation and we will not stop until we are fully satisfied that we have exhausted every lead and scrutinised every aspect relating to this matter. CSA should be commended in the way that they are going about this investigation.  “As we have stated previously, any form of corruption in the game will be dealt with severely. We will leave no stone unturned in this investigation.” Independent Media