Durban – Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa has warned against the SACP breaking away from the ruling alliance movement, saying it would be the death knell of the ANC. He said the ANC had been damaged by the breakaways of Cope and the EFF. “You know we survived the PAC, UDM and Cope. We also survived EFF. We will not survive this time around,” he warned. Mthethwa’s remarks come after sustained calls by the Young Communist League of SA (YCLSA) for the SACP to contest the 2019 national elections on in its own. The problems between the SACP and ANC in KwaZulu-Natal have seen SACP-aligned ANC members in the province alleging that they had been sidelined in the ANC nomination process in the run-up to the local government elections The divisions led to violence in some parts of the province. On Sunday, Mthethwa, who was delivering a political education lecture to thousands of KwaZulu-Natal ANC Youth League members at the Durban City Hall, said history would judge the alliance leaders harshly if they allowed another split. “Our children and our grandchildren will have the right to come and spit on our graves because we would have sold out the blood, sweat and tears of our forebears,” he said. The minister was responding to a comment by eThekwini ANCYL regional secretary Thinta Cibane, who called for the ANC to be proactive and address the YCLSA’s calls for its mother body to contest the elections. However, Mthethwa said a split should be avoided at all costs, because “if the SACP were to contest the election on its own it would leave with ANC members”. He appealed to the ANCYL to engage their YCLSA counterparts and teach them about the importance of the alliance. “So, comrades, let us challenge these comrades. The ANCYL has a duty to challenge (YCLSA) politically. It has a duty to engage them, to make them see the bigger picture,” said Mthethwa. YCLSA provincial secretary Mlungisi Manana said that if the SACP were to contest the 2019 elections it would amass enough votes to go it alone. KwaZulu-Natal-based political analyst Protas Madlala said the results of the watershed municipal elections showed that “the ground is very fertile” for the SACP to run alone. He said a lot of disgruntled ANC supporters who did not vote for the former liberation movement were looking for a “legitimate home, (and) these are the people who refused to throw their vote to the DA”.  bongani.hans@inl.co.za  The Mercury