San Francisco - Persado
CEO Alex Vratskides could raise venture funding. He's just
not sure he wants to. His New
York-based startup doubled annual revenue this year and is on track to break
even in 2017. Valued at about $200 million in April, the marketing automation
company counts Bain Capital and Goldman Sachs among its backers—a source of
validation in the eyes of many venture investors. But
Vratskides thinks there's a better way to reach the finish line: take on
debt. "Interest rates are low, and you avoid dilution. It's a
no-brainer," says Vratskides, who is angling to secure a loan of $30
million or so in the second half of 2017. "It is potentially our first
preference going forward." Last year
venture capitalists plowed a record $79 billion into startups at often
unsustainable valuations. Enthusiasm waned in 2016, when fewer
startups got funded, and those that did faced more scrutiny and tougher deal
terms. While the market has recovered somewhat in the last few months, it's
down 10 percent from its high mid last year, according to the Bloomberg
US Startups Barometer, an index tracking funding and exits for private
companies. Read also: Changes expected for venture capital incentive Venture
deals in 2016—for all but the hottest startups, anyway—required founders to
give up more equity in exchange for less money than they did last
year. So, despite cautionary tales from tech blog GigaOm and game console
maker Ouya, which both flamed out after failing to pay back lenders, US startups have loaded up on debt, enabling them to borrow money without
ceding a potentially lucrative stake. No one
publishes national data on venture debt, but a half dozen lenders provided
numbers showing activity spiked in 2016. Silicon Valley Bank's loan volume to
venture-backed startups surged 19 percent during the past year to
$1.1 billion for the quarter ending September 30. Wellington
Financial made more than 10 new loans to venture-backed startups in 2016,
double last year's total. At Hercules Capital, annual volume is up and the
average deal size increased 16 percent year-over-year to $15.6 million.
TriplePoint's volume is up more than 25 percent. Western Technology Investment
CEO Maurice Werdegar called volume "robust" and described the
lending environment as "hyper-competitive." Borrowing
capital allows startups to postpone valuation negotiations that come with
raising equity. Startups fear the prospect of selling shares at a lower price,
known in the industry as a down round. "Folks don't want to do down
rounds or flat rounds," says Haim Zaltzman, a partner at law firm Latham
& Watkins, which has handled well over 100 such loan transactions
so far this year. "Debt allows you to get around that." Zaltzman
compares this year's activity with the debt boom in 2008, when venture
funding slowed to a trickle. Silicon Valley Bank, the granddaddy of tech
lending, says loan volume and value could have gone even higher. "What
constrained us was discipline," says Marc Cadieux, the bank's chief credit
officer who has seen competitors offer startups double what his bank would
do and at "materially cheaper" rates. "There are limits to what
we're willing to do." Read also: Paris, the upstart startup capital Taking on
debt can be risky. Unlike venture investors who typically bet one investment
will hit big and compensate for duds, lenders get no upside if a startup
succeeds. They require timely payments from all their companies, with interest
that's designed to provide the lender with a more predictable and less
risky source of revenue than venture investing. When startups miss payments, as
GigaOm and Ouya can attest and gaming company Mind Candy is finding out,
lenders can be unforgiving. "When
things go bad, they go very bad, but there's usually little information about
the wind down," says Mike Driscoll, founder and CEO of Metamarkets,
an advertising technology startup founded in 2010 that has raised around $40
million. "Silicon Valley buries its dead very quietly." Despite the
risk, Driscoll decided to take a loan this year. He says he didn't consider
tapping VCs again because another round would have diluted his shares too
much. Driscoll says he ran a formal process, getting term sheets from five
lenders along with lots of advice from Khosla Ventures and his other investors.
The offers had interest rates ranging from 9 percent to 15 percent
over two to five years, and the terms protecting the lenders varied. Financial
covenants, especially ones permitting the lender to take control of the
startup, were sometimes stringent. One lender
had a clause that would force Metamarkets to pay off the debt early if it
failed to hit 80 percent of its revenue projection. Driscoll passed on that,
opting instead for cleaner terms for a $14.25 million loan in October at an
average rate of around 11 percent from Wellington Financial and City National
Bank. He'll use the cash to invest in Metamarkets' cloud infrastructure, which
should ultimately lower operating costs. Although debt
activity is up this year, the practice is hardly a new phenomenon.
VCs have long arranged lines of credit for startups—which they can draw
from, or not—at the time they invest to help them meet operating costs and
ensure they don't run out of cash between rounds. Western
Technology Investment names several hundred startups on its site as current
debtors or equity investments, including insurance startup Oscar Health;
Jet.com which was acquired by Wal-Mart Stores for $3.3 billion in August; and
data mining giant Palantir Technologies. Another customer is car-buying
site Beepi, which shut down its business outside California, cut 180 jobs and
merged with another startup this month. Matt
Murphy, a partner at Menlo Ventures, says most companies he works with have
some amount of debt. So long as the terms are structured properly, it can be a
good way to minimise dilution and build to the next funding round, he says. Latham
Watkins' Zaltzman expects the brisk pace to continue through next
year as more mature companies seek options other than venture investment or
going public. "You
don't have to grow 20 percent or 30 percent every year to be a good
candidate for debt credit," he says, adding that some startups valued at
north of $1 billion will fall into that category. "Some of these unicorns
are limping, but they haven't gone completely bust yet." Bloomberg