Durban - Achoo! Bless you, and all those who have caught your germs.It s normal to sneeze: it s the body s natural reflex to an invader - whether pollen, cat hair or a virus that leads to the common cold - in your nose linings.No matter the cause, your sneezes spread germs in an area up to 3.5m.This week scientists at the Texas A&amp;M University Health Science Centre came up with the best way to catch a sneeze and the correct way to prevent spreading illness.Firstly there are those with no etiquette - the rude sneezer. Sneezing with no hands won t just embarrass your parents, it ll likely shoot germs over surfaces everywhere, where they can live for weeks until someone comes into contact with them. It makes you rethink grabbing that handrail on the stairs or leafing through magazines in a waiting room. And should you have such a monster in your midst, be sure to have some antibacterial wipes handy.Then there are those who try to cover up, but don t get it quite right.While using your hands is a good way to keep germs from spraying all over the place, it s almost counter-productive if you don t scrub your hands clean afterwards. Sneezing in your hands is a good way to spread germs to your computer, phone, doorknobs - or someone else if you shake their hand.And the scientists say you should not only cover your mouth, but your nose as well.If you catch yourself using your hands to barricade the germs, be sure to wash them with soap and warm water for at least 30 seconds. Using hand sanitiser is no substitute.Then there are the sleeve sneezers, or vampire sneezers, as the scientists called them. Using your sleeve is a good way to cover your sneeze, and has a smaller risk of contamination. Although it isn t the best way to keep germs from travelling, some experts suggest it is better than using your hands because you are less likely to touch surfaces or other people with your sleeve. Just be sure to cover your nose and mouth.But by far the best method, for you and your colleagues, is the tissue. Keep a box nearby. Using - and then throwing away - a tissue is the best way to keep germs from spreading like wildfire. Be sure to wash your hands afterwards. Independent on Saturday