Durban - Tourists are excited to be in Durban during the festive season and local businessmen, ringing up the cash registers, are equally chuffed. According to some owners and managers at the fast food outlets Post visited, they are already seeing an increase in business. The owner of Danny s House of Curries at Blue Lagoon, Danny Naidoo, has already topped up his fridges and cupboards with extra stock to keep up with the demand. I ordered 11 tons of meat for this month alone and it seems it won t be enough if people keep coming in these numbers every day, said Naidoo. The oThongathi (Tongaat) resident said they had struck deals with their suppliers in October and November in order to prepare for Christmas and New Year s Day. He is expecting to sell a large number of his famous bunny chows. After the premises were revamped, Naidoo said he felt safe trading at the venue. There are a lot of police patrols. Last year, they were everywhere and not one restaurant got robbed. We know the municipality has deployed a number of men in blue to protect us again this year. Naidoo s neighbour Niel Govender, 28, the manager of Top Chef restaurant, said: We always expect a higher volume of customers, which is why we plan in advance. He said their chicken tikka and breyani were fast sellers and to avoid running out of stock, they had to order more ingredients. Read also: Tourism to contribute 9% of GDP We have customers coming from Joburg wanting our spicy tikka chicken. They love it. Alishya Rajgopaul, 18, of Phoenix, said business for now was slow but in a few days all that would change. Rajgopaul manages her grandfather s stall, Ram s and Dolls Snacks Bazaar near the pier at Blue Lagoon, during the holidays. She said her granddad had stocked up on several snacks, which visitors enjoyed as they walked around. With her were cousins, 7-year-old Enrique and 12-year-old Micheala Chinsamy, who called out cheap mango pickles in an attempt to lure customers to the stall. They also helped out at their grandfather s stall during the holidays because he often spoils them. Helping out, they said, was their way to show their appreciation. It s our turn to spoil him and he needs to relax, said Michaeala, who added that working on the beach afforded them the opportunity to swim while on the job. Enrique, with an amused expression on his face, said: I enjoy being here every day. I can swim any time I want. THE POST