Pictures by: Motshwari Mofokeng/Independent Media  Golden Arrows 0 Kaizer Chiefs (1)2 Parker 29, Tshabalala 79  Moses Mabhida Stadium – With it's sea breeze, relaxed atmosphere and possibly the best Chiefs’ crowd in terms of attending their matches and backing the club – Amakhosi coach Steve Komphela couldn’t have asked for a better city to end what has been a stressful year. The victory, to put Chiefs on 24 points after 15 matches, made it an even better send-off to a 2016 that must have felt like a lifetime for Komphela. If he had hair, there would be a few strands left because of how much the coach has scratched his head in disappointment and seemingly out of ideas on how to return what looked like chumps to champions they once were. Komphela endured countless calls for his sacking and missiles thrown at his directions. On Tuesday night, he watched a rare sight – Chiefs’ fans singing their lungs out in a venue that didn’t have more chairs than people. But it took a lot of effort to get there and Chiefs still aren’t the full package just yet. Komphela and his technical team have to work tirelessly during this lengthy break to ensure that the club finds goals regularly and aren’t pushovers at the back. The posture of the two coaches, Chiefs’ Komphela and Arrows’ Clinton Larsen, when they stood up to issue instructions showed where they both stand in their clubs. Komphela looked like he had a hunchback, obviously weighed down by the pressure and expectations that comes with being a Chiefs head coach. His job was made difficult by Chiefs relinquishing the league last season without much of a fight and then hardly looking like they can win it back in this campaign. In contrast, Larsen walked with his chest out.    Despite Abafana Bes’thende having gone five matches without a win before this encounter, being in the top eight is an achievement for him and the club that was in the first division two seasons ago. But that chest, that was pushed out with proud, was suddenly occupied by folded arms next to a glum looking face as Chiefs bossed Arrows off the field. Larsen had tried to counter that strength, especially from Willard Katsande, with the pace of Nduduzo Sibiya and Limbikani Mzava. When it worked, Arrows didn’t punish Amakhosi, largely because they didn’t have an imposing figure upfront. Sibusiso Sibeko only threatens when he has the ball at his feet and space to take on defenders. When he is boxed in, he disappears like he did here. When the Soweto giant managed to bully their way past the Durban side, they made them pay with Bernard Parker scoring his second successive goal after spending a year without hitting the back of the net in a competitive match. Parker’s glancing header, from Ramahlwe Mphahlele’s cross, is part of his attempt to make amends. Larsen reacted by introducing Kagisho Dikgacoi in the second half to add more brawn in Arrows’ midfield. That strength meant sacrificing pace. Chiefs took advantage of that and ran them rugged. Goalkeeper Nkosingiphile Gumede had to play sweeper. Chiefs’ lead and how they controlled the match made Komphela’s hunchback disappear. He was able to stand-up straight and push his chest out. The coach stood still though, like a stature, when Brilliant Khuzwayo failed to make a routine save, almost directing the ball to his own net. Simphiwe Tshabalala ensured that there will be no heartbreaks for Amakhosi this time with his header securing a result that will make Komphela’s Christmas lunch go down better.    @extrastrongsa @NJABULON Independent Media