Seattle - Mark Zuckerberg this week introduced the world to Jarvis - an artificial intelligence (AI) system the Facebook chief created that can choose and play music, turn on lights, and recognise visitors. Jarvis, named after the virtual assistant in the Iron Man movies, could be a step towards a new product, Zuckerberg wrote. Zuckerberg announced results of the project, a challenge he set for himself this year, as digital home assistants by Google and Amazon.com competed for holiday sales and were expected to outsell popular emerging gadgets such as virtual reality headsets and drones. Creating Jarvis proved humanity was both closer and farther off from an AI breakthrough than we imagined, Zuckerberg wrote. Computers were getting good at picking out patterns, such as face recognition, but it was difficult to teach them new things, he wrote. Read also: You can't stop Facebook using your data Everything I did this year - natural language, face recognition, speech recognition and so on - are all variants of the same fundamental pattern recognition techniques, he wrote. But even if I spent 1000 more hours, I probably wouldn t be able to build a system that could learn completely new skills on its own. By the end of the year, Jarvis was able to respond to text and voice commands and it could run music, air conditioning, doors, and other systems. It could recognise visitors, start a toaster and even shoot T-shirts from a cannon. With more effort to broaden Jarvis s use beyond Zuckerberg s own house, the experiment could be a great foundation to build a new product , he wrote. A dearth of internet-&shy;connected devices, lack of common standards for connected devices to communicate and challenges related to speech recognition and machine learning were all obstacles, he said. At the same time, challenges had led to eureka moments. Adjustments to help Jarvis recognise context in commands helped the system respond better to less specific requests, such as asking the system to play me some music . Reuters