Durban - While many are looking forward to relaxing and enjoying the festive season, residents of Inchanga - where a wave of politically-linked murders have occurred - say they have nothing to be cheerful about.In fact, many fear that the killings would increase in the coming days, casting a grim shadow over the festive period.While residents said the killings were linked to the ongoing tensions between the ANC and the SACP in the area, Inchanga councillor Petros Malombo Nxumalo denied this.On Sunday evening, Zazi Mthembu, a resident of Fredville, Inchanga, was gunned down by unknown assailants. Another resident, Mzamo Mzimela, was shot dead on Saturday evening. Their murders come after last Monday s killing of Ndumiso, 27, and Thobani Shozi, 25 - nephews of ANC proportional representative councillor, Boy Shozi. The following day, Lungisani Mchunu was gunned down. Lungisani was closing the gate at his home when people approached him looking for his brothers. When he wouldn t tell them where his siblings were, they shot him. Before that they had chased another man, shooting and wounding him, Nxumalo said.Although public order police were conducting patrols in the area, Nxumalo said this was not enough.Concerned community members were, however, convinced the killings were the result of political tensions between warring alliance partners, the ANC and SACP.A resident who spoke to the Daily News on condition of anonymity because he feared for his life, said the recent murders were an act of retaliation for the murder of Shozi s nephews. Nkosinathi Shezi, 45, a member of the SACP in Fredville, said residents were unhappy with the tensions in the area between the alliance partners. He said there were factions fuelling the violence.Shezi was not hopeful he would enjoy a merry Christmas weekend, given the tensions. As members of the real SACP and ANC alliance, we are not fighting with individuals, but we want certain people gone because we have seen that some leaders are not good for us. These killings will continue, it might be quiet now during the day, but once it turns to dusk this will keep happening, Shezi said.Wearing his red SACP T-shirt, Shezi said they would continue sporting their colours without any fear, even if it meant death.Another Fredville resident, Jacob Dlamini, 54, instructed his four sons and a daughter not to wander around at night and to head home as soon as the sun set, to avoid being targeted. These killings are escalating despite police visibility, and the fact that they are trying to contain the situation, said Dlamini.He called on political leaders to quell the tensions because the situation could be solved only if the leaders face it head-on , and ensure their members adhered to peaceful resolutions. Dlamini also suggested that taverns in the area have strict curfews because it was a breeding ground for some of the attacks and killings.Thandeka Mtolo, 30, said they were constantly gripped by fear in the evenings as they battled to sleep because of the sounds of gunfire. Although we are not politically affiliated, we can t help but fear what is happening in our area.We don t know what sort of Christmas and New Year we are going to have under the current situation, Mtolo said. Another resident who spoke on condition of anonymity said although people thought members of both the ANC and SACP were adhering to the peace agreement signed after the killings, this was not the case. The killings had subsided due to heavy police presence in the area, but now with only a few police vans visible they have seen an opportunity to strike again, he said.Daily News