Rustenburg – Late Rustenburg councillor Rocky Malebana-Metsing was on the brink of being expelled from the Forum 4 Service Delivery, his friend Pogiso Bothomane said on Thursday. “We were suspended and given final written warning. The letters stated that if we do not pay a fine of R5000 by November 30, we will be expelled. The Rock passed away waiting for his letter.” Bothomane who with Malebana-Mesting worked for Forum 4 Service Delivery was paying his tribute to his comrade and political mentor under the banner of an organisation called Sedibeng. Malebana-Metsing died on November 23, in Rustenburg, he was 67. Bothomane said they were suspended on October 16, brought before the Forum disciplinary hearing on broad charges. “We asked for the charges to be clarified, the matter was not heard and postponed. We then got final warning.” Sources within the F4SD said letters of expulsion were supposed to be served on Malebana-Metsing on Monday, two days before he died. Bothomane painted a rocky journey they walked after leaving the African National Congress and aligned themselves with the Forum 4 Service Delivery. “We were suspended on August 18, a day before the first council sitting, we were only reinstated after lawyers were involved and sit in council the next day. These people are hell bent to fire us. I am now alone…” Malebana-Metsing led a coup to topple Lucas Mangope, the president of Bophuthatswana, after the failed coup he skipped the country and joined the ANC in exile. He was elected into the national executive committee of the ANC in 1991, after the first democratic election in 1994 he was appointed MEC for Agriculture in North West. He resigned from the ANC, and consequently lost his seat on May 16 1995, after political differences. He made his comeback into mainstream politics in 2006, and was elected into the Rustenburg local municipality, where he held several strategic positions. He was removed from the member of the mayoral committee (MMC) position of Infrastructure in Rustenburg Municipality. Former mayor of Ngaka Modiri Molema District Municipality, Themba Gwabeni said Malebana-Metsing was removed from his position for refusing to release R12 million to the provincial government to provide water in Majakaneng near Brits. He refused based on a fact that Majakaneng was under the control of Madibeng and was not the responsibility of the Rustenburg municipality. Malebana-Metsing left the ANC again in June 2016, after he was not happy with the manner in which councilor candidate lists for the municipal election were conducted. He joined the Forum for Service Delivery (F4SD) and stood as mayoral candidate for Rustenburg. Described as a gallant, fearless fighter and peace loving man by many, the Rock as he was affectionately known would be laid to rest on Saturday. African News Agency