He used to
say he would die young: George Michael's cousin reveals how the superstar
predicted his own early death when he was just 20 George
Michael died on Christmas day after long battle with drugs and alcohol, Andros Georgiou, who once toured the world with his cousin, said he had repeatedly
begged the Wham! star to get help because he feared his addictions would
eventually kill him. However, a series of rows caused a rift between the two
men and they had not seen each other for 18 years. A photo posted by SamuraiMods (@samuraimods) on Jul 28, 2016 at 12:22am PDT  READ: What George Michael taught me about being gay A planned reunion in the New Year will now not take place after Michael was
tragically found dead at his Oxfordshire cottage on Christmas Day aged 53.
Mr Georgiou dismissed claims Michael was taking Class A drugs before his death,
insisting he had 'stopped all the naughty stuff'. He told The
Times: 'He was on antidepressants but he wasn't doing drugs anymore.  'He had
swapped drugs for drink but he was doing better. The craziest thing is that
when we were 20, 21 he used to say he'd die young. I'd say, don't be stupid,
what are you talking about? Now he's gone, it's devastating. Following
Michael's death, Mr Georgiou, a childhood friend and former manager to the
singer, wrote on Facebook: 'My biggest fear has come true. I can't believe
this. Please someone tell me this is not true, Yog [Michael's nickname] can't
be gone.' Mr Georgiou wrote in the early hours of Boxing Day that he was 'watching Sky
News in disbelief'. It emerged
today that Michael will be laid to rest next to his mother, Lesley Panayiotou,
in Highgate Cemetery,
north London. Other
members of his extended family questioned why more was not done to help him
battle his drug addictions. READ: Carrie Fisher dead at 60 Mr
Georgiou's sister Katerina told the Daily Mail: 'We only heard when we put on
the news – on Christmas Day. None of us know what happened. We just don't know
anything.' She said
the star had not seen most of his family after his most recent rehab stint in a
Swiss clinic last year, and had been in contact only with his sisters Melanie
and Yioda, and their elderly father. A statement released by his publicist Connie Filippello yesterday on behalf of
the star's 'family and close friends' said they had been 'touched beyond words
by the incredible outpouring of love' by his fans. 'For
someone whose life was ultimately about his music and the love he had for his
family and friends, his fans and the world, there could be no more fitting
tribute than the many, many, kind words that have been said and numerous plays
his records have received,' the statement added Michael was
found dead in his bed at his second home in Goring-on-Thames, Oxfordshire, on
Christmas Day. His manager said he had suffered heart failure. 'Contrary
to some reports there were no suspicious circumstances surrounding his death
and from the bottom of our hearts we thank those who, rightly, have chosen to
celebrate his life and legacy at this most distressing of times,' his publicist
added. The singer
had battled with drug addictions for years and was reported to have been using
heroin, but his publicist insisted there were 'no suspicious circumstances
surrounding his death'. His
boyfriend Fadi Fawaz, who discovered his body, said the singer had died
'peacefully'.