London - A married businessman in the grip of a midlife crisis was jailed for life on Wednesday for murdering his burlesque dancer lover in a brutal fit of &quot;cold anger&quot;.Peter Morgan, 54, throttled Georgina Symonds, 25, fearing she was plotting to blackmail him with damning footage of his sordid sex parties with call girls.In the &quot;calmly executed&quot; killing, the multi-millionaire strangled the blonde escort with twine, &quot;slowly snuffing the life out of her&quot;, before putting her body in the boot of his Porsche and hiding it in an outhouse at the farm where his wife and daughters lived. Sugar daddy Morgan had become obsessed with Miss Symonds after they met for sex, and was paying her &pound;10 000 a month to be his &quot;exclusive&quot; escort.She nicknamed him Rich Pete. He bought a Range Rover and a Ferrari and gave her enough money to buy another Ferrari. He paid for full-body liposuction, gave her helicopter rides around his castle and allowed her to live rent free in a bungalow in Llanmartin, near Newport.But he grew paranoid over a cache of explicit photos and films which Symonds had on her phone said to be &quot;enough to ruin&quot; him. Using a secret listening device, he eavesdropped on her telling a friend she wanted to &quot;fleece him&quot; and run off and killed her two days later in January this year.Sentencing Morgan after the four-week trial, Mr Justice Garnham QC told him: &quot;The murder was, in my judgement, carefully planned and calmly executed.&quot;You killed her out of cold anger at what you discovered she had done and fear of what she might do in the future. You had plainly determined the way in which you could kill her before you went to the bungalow.&quot;He added: &quot;Kid yourself though you might this was no normal relationship. You were 54 and she was 25. The arrangements between you were essentially commercial.&quot;You learned, in essence, that Georgina Symonds had absolutely no respect and no time for you. You might have loved her, but she didn t even like you.&quot;Describing the killing, the judge said: &quot;You must have caused Georgina Symonds significant physical and mental suffering as you strangled her, pausing to speak to her, strangling her again, pausing for her reaction and tightening it again for a final time. She would have realised that you were intending on slowly snuffing the life out of her.&quot;Morgan, a businessman and property developer from a respected farming family, was worth &pound;20 million. He had two daughters, Sarah, 21, and Emma, 19, with his wife Helen, 50.But he now faces spending the rest of his life in prison after a jury of eight men and three women unanimously found him guilty of murder on Wednesday.Morgan remained emotionless as the judge sentenced him to life in prison with a minimum of 25 years.His father David Morgan, 74, a member of the Royal Welsh Agricultural Society, wept as his son was led from the dock at Newport Crown Court. .After the trial, Symonds grieving mother Deborah, 56, said: &quot;The death of my daughter Georgina has been a devastating tragedy for the whole of our family. Her beautiful daughter has been left without a mum. Georgina has left a hole in our lives that will never be repaired.&quot;Morgan met Symonds in May 2012. Months earlier he realised at the age of 48 that &quot;nothing lasts forever&quot; and his midlife crisis led him to buy an American fire engine and a former Army tank, which he drove around his farm dressed in combat fatigues.While Symonds stayed with Morgan for his money, her true love was a local electrician named Peter Deem, whom she met in 2008 and nicknamed Poor Pete. But in the summer of last year she split up with him.In November last year, Deem killed himself. Symonds was quick to pin the blame on Morgan.Morgan had denied murder on the grounds of diminished responsibility, saying he had Asperger s syndrome and lost control. He said he only wanted to &quot;frighten&quot; Symonds.But Mr Justice Garnham told him on Wednesday: &quot;You were able to form a rational judgement and you were capable of exercising self-control.&quot; Daily Mail