That, or they will muse and go, knowingly, “Oh, so that’s where the new world order came from." It was, I’m sure you all agree, quite something of a year. It was the year we lost many notable artists, such as Prince, Mandoza, whose music I am listening to as I ponder 2016, and Sfiso Ncwane. We also lost many other people; few of whom would have made it into the public’s eye were it not for their untimely death, which is scant consolation for the loved ones they left behind, for whom they were rock stars. We also lost Khwezi - yet I am sure her voice will live on for many young South Africans, because we need more voices like hers. We had what many have referred to as the most hotly-contested elections in our history, even though they were municipal, and not national. The next ones will be quite something to behold. The elections signalled a clear desire for change among many voters; voters who are fed up with high crime rates, sluggish economic growth and unemployment that is now at multiyear highs. South Africa’s gross domestic product is really lagging. It is nowhere near the rate we need to pull us out of the doldrums. In the third quarter, we managed a measly 0.2 percent growth. Can I hear distant whispers of recession? Of course, the saga around the so-called Guptagate and threats to prosecute Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan did not help. All this infighting does is keep our eyes off the ball - and it’s a pretty important ball, so we cannot afford to have it roll away down the hillside.  Going global South Africans weren’t the only people to line up at the polls this year in elections that changed history. The UK voted to leave the EU in a move that stunned many of us and #Brexit trended. Apparently, this decision came about because too many young Britons were apathetic, and didn’t bother going to the polls, so the vote was carried by the, erm, older generation - who have had enough of immigrants “stealing” all their benefits, getting free medical care and housing, and not contributing to the economy. I’m still not sure what the fallout from that will be, although Chancellor of the Exchequer Philip Hammond has been in SA - and other parts of Africa -scouting for trade opportunities in the run up to the UK’s exit. It would seem that pretty much the same mindset led to Americans voting in Donald Trump as their next president. Oh, the jokes and memes that flew when that news came out. As funny as each of these situations may seem from a distance, they do indicate a new world order; one that is founded on internalism, trade boundaries and intense nationalism. And that is, in no way whatsoever, good for us - especially given the hammering emerging markets have taken recently. And will continue to take. Looking back on 2016, it’s hard to believe that anything good happened. After all, we were flooded - literally in at least one case - with really bad news. However, there have been positives. South Africans pulled together at the polls, we pulled together to help flood victims, we pulled together to help each other out when food and water were scarce. Labour and business pulled together to avert a downgrade. Civil society stood together as never before and became even more vocal - but not to the point of an Arab Spring. We exhibited many small acts of kindness that add up to a fantastic nation that can. And we will. Now 2017 is around the corner, so let’s rest up and come back fighting - our country needs us. On a personal note, I’ve also had much to be grateful for. My little person came home with a straight-A report card, I was privileged to travel to the UK - and even caught up with my big sister, who I hadn’t seen in four years - and I did a quiet trip to Zimbabwe. This year has been profound on a personal and professional nature: www.busrep.co.za ended November with a record number of hits and, for the first time, beat out a competitor I’ve had in my sights for quite some time. And for that, I’d like to thank you for returning. Please don’t stop sending feedback via our various channels. As this is the last Notes of the year, I’ll catch you all next year - for a really great 2017!  Nicola Mawson is the online editor of Business Report. Follow her on Twitter @NicolaMawson or Business Report @busrep. BUSINESS REPORT