Cape Town – Ajax Cape Town finished the year with a flourish in defeating Chippa United 1-0 at the Cape Town Stadium on Wednesday night. The Cape side didn't have the best of times early on in the season, but they've certainly come good over the last few weeks, with five wins in their last six games. And, after being at the bottom of the PSL log a while back, they have now rocketed to eighth. Meanwhile, at Goble Park in Bethlehem, Cape Town City lost 1-0 to Free State Stars. The result means that City won't finish the year at the summit of the PSL, but they will be in the top three - and, for a new club, that's an achievement in itself. At the Cape Town Stadium, though, the night not only belonged to Ajax for the victory, but it also cemented the arrival of a fantastic new talent. Ajax have, over the years, always flooded the PSL with enterprising, gifted teenagers. This season is no different, with the recent, rapid rise to prominence of 18-year-old Grant Margeman. Introduced by new Ajax coach Stanley Menzo a few weeks ago, his performances off the bench have been energetic and influential, resulting in the teenager from Bonteheuwel forcing his way into the starting team. On Wednesday night, throughout the 90 minutes, Margeman demonstrated what all the fuss is about. He was brilliant, both in attack, with his passing range and game intelligence, and in the mature way he kept the shape and structure when having to track back in defence. The big news when the team sheet became available was the absence of Rivaldo Coetzee, Ajax's star Bafana Bafana central defender. According to the club, his omission was for disciplinary reasons, but they were not prepared to comment any further. Coetzee's place in the starting team was taken by Ghanaian central defender Lawrence Lartey. When the action got under way, it was a bit of a forgettable opening 15 minutes. While there was lots of effort, both teams turned over possession too easily and it resulted in a rather scrappy opening period. There was a chance apiece during this time, though, with Ajax goalkeeper Jody February having to make a good save to palm away a snapshot from Lerato Manzini. And, at the other end, Mosa Lebusa powered his way through, but fired his attempt wide of goal. But once the teams had settled down and got into rhythm, there was a lot more fluidity to their passing, leading to a more pleasing, watchable game. But the chances fell to Ajax. After great interplay between Thabo Mosadi and teenager Margeman, Ndiviwe Mdabuka missed an inviting chance. And, son after, Prince Nxumalo was in on goal, but was foiled by a wonderful save from Chippa goalkeeper Daniel Akpeyi. Margeman then thundered a superb long range shot at goal that looked as if it would sneak under the cross bar, but Akpeyi was there in the nick of time to flick it over. The 18-year-old then another opportunity on the stroke of half-time, firing in another powerful shot, but again he was denied by Akpeyi. Akpeyi continued to be a busy man in the second half, keeping his team in the game with fine saves to deny Nxumalo and Mosadi. With three minutes to go, Ajax's pressure finally paid off when Nxumalo raced through and, with only Akpeyi to beat, the striker deftly chipped the ball over the keeper for a delightful finish. @extrastrongsa Independent Media