The body of Nopinki Fuba, 34, of Site C, was found dumped in a communal toilet in Site B RR section on Tuesday.The alleged perpetrator was later arrested. An eyewitness who did not want to be named said he saw the couple fighting. He started attacking Fuba from about 11pm until 1am. We tried to stop him but he ended up attacking us too. I didn t know what had got into him that night. He was like an animal and I have never seen him like that before, he said.Police spokesman Captain FC van Wyk said: These incidents are deplorable in the light of the ongoing 16 Days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children and are taken seriously by police management. &quot;Therefore the police are not deterred and will intensify our efforts to arrest and bring the perpetrators of these crimes to book. The investigators managed to arrest the 27-year-old. &quot;He is expected to appear in Khayelitsha Magistrate s Court (on Wednesday) on a charge of murder. Xolani Manange, a neighbour of the suspect, said he does not deserve to return to their community. On Tuesday morning he came to ask for a loan of R50.&quot;I refused to lend it to him because I thought he was going to buy liquor, but I ended up giving it to him.&quot;After a few minutes he left my house. I went to his house to see what he was going to do with the R50. When I got there, I found Fuba crying on the bed. She told me that he had been beating her the whole night. I noticed she had bruises all over her body. I told him to take her to the day hospital in Site C because she was badly injured. I left them while he was getting ready to take her. He then took her to the main road to get a taxi. He said he later saw people standing outside a communal toilet. I went to check, only to find Fuba s body in the toilet. I think she might have died from injuries because her left leg seemed to be broken. She had wounds to her head, Manange said.Fuba s older brother, Moses Fuba, said a family friend informed them that her body had been found. It is very painful to experience this kind of pain especially at this time of the year. We are a family of four and Nopinki was the last born. We are all unemployed and we are all depending on our older sister s social grant, we are confused, we don t even know where to start to plan for the funeral because we don t have a cent. All we want as a family is for him to be released so that he can finish what he has started; we want him to plan the whole funeral arrangement. OR Tambo community leader Mandisa Phindela said what the man did to Fuba came as a shock to the whole area. Since we moved to this area, it is the first time we experience this kind of trauma. What he did to his girlfriend was so cruel, I don t think a normal person can do what he did. The suspect s aunt received a call to inform her that he had allegedly killed Fuba. I went to fetch him and took him to the police because he deserved to be arrested, she said.Cape Argus