The 37-year-old 'Keeping Up With the Kardashians' star and the 33-year-old television personality,  who have sons Mason, six, 23-month-old Reign and four-year-old daughter Penelope together, have reportedly rekindled their romance and are giving their relationship “a try again” after breaking up after nine years last year. A photo posted by Kourtney Kardashian (@kourtneykardash) on May 8, 2016 at 9:37am PDT Speaking about the couples love life, a source told E! News: “They are back together and giving their relationship a try again.” And it is believed the entrepreneur has “mellowed out” and has curbed his former partying ways, which was the cause of many spats between him and the raven-haired beauty. A photo posted by Kourtney Kardashian (@kourtneykardash) on Aug 4, 2016 at 12:28pm PDT The source explained: “Scott's mellowed out a lot and hasn't been partying.” And the pair are desperate to make amends for their children's sake. A separate source said: “Both want to make it work for them and their kids.” READ:  Will Gobisiqolo be the song of the summer? This news comes after Kourtney and Scott were spotted holidaying in Mexico last month, which saw Scott gush about his partner. A photo posted by Scott Disick (@letthelordbewithyou) on Apr 18, 2016 at 2:51pm PDT Alongside a picture of the television personality sporting a black swimsuit and peering over the edge of the swimming pool, which was previously shared on his Instagram account, he wrote: “Views (sic).” Meanwhile, Scott has admitted he has been “on a mission” to win back his long-term partner as he has recently moved back into the mansion he previously shared with the brunette beauty and their three children before their relationship collapsed. A photo posted by Kourtney Kardashian (@kourtneykardash) on Mar 17, 2016 at 2:31pm PDT A source previously said: “Kourtney is very encouraged to see how much he has been trying.” However, the mother-of-three didn't want to get back with her former beau until she knew he was “fully committed” to their family. READ: Selena Gomez the master of Instagram in 2016 A separate source explained: “She got screwed over by Scott so many times in the past. Kourtney is still protecting herself. A photo posted by Scott Disick (@letthelordbewithyou) on May 25, 2015 at 2:22am PDT “She doesn't want to say that they are back together until she knows for sure that Scott is fully committed to his family. But so far so good. Scott has been amazing to Kourtney, and she is very happy.”