Most people are in a state of shock after a car accident. Everyone responds to shock differently. Some people get angry, others get fearful or go into denial. Whatever the case may be, after an accident you re probably not the best version of yourself. This means you re inclined to make silly mistakes, which can have financial implications.Shaun Marshall, the general manager of claims operations at Momentum Short-term Insurance, says the most common mistakes clients make are:Not obtaining authorisation from their insurer to have their vehicle towed;Not obtaining all the information about the accident; andAdmitting guilt.Fanus Coetzee, the head of adjustment services at Santam, agrees with Marshall that it is common for clients blindly to trust tow- truck operators and not to obtain all the information they need from a third party. Also, they tend to get involved in arguments with the other party over who is to blame for the accident.Natasha Kawulesar, the head of client services at OUTsurance, agrees. She says clients don t always realise the importance of obtaining witnesses details, which can be crucial in the event of a dispute between the parties. Authorisation to towMost insurance companies require clients to contact them from the scene of the accident, to ensure that only an authorised operator is appointed to tow the vehicle.The benefit of contacting your insurer is that it will deal with the towing company and be accountable for the safe-keeping of your vehicle.You re vulnerable after an accident and therefore easy prey for pushy tow-truck operators, who can hold vehicles hostage at absurd costs , Marshall says. If you don t obtain authorisation from your insurer to use the services of a particular towing company, you might be held liable for the towing costs, he says.Marshall advises that you obtain the go-ahead from your insurer directly, rather than take the word of the tow-truck operator that he has received authorisation from your insurer to tow your car. And when you call your insurer, get the name of the person who gives you the authorisation, he says. All relevant informationObtaining all the relevant information at the scene of an accident is crucial for validating a claim, Marshall says. The more information the better, not only to assist in validating your claim, but also to deal with liability and recovery claims. A liability claim is when the innocent party claims against your policy and a recovery claim refers to a claim against the guilty party, he says.Marshall says that remembering the five Ws will serve you well when obtaining the relevant information. They are: who, when, where, what and why.The who pertains to all the parties involved. Try to obtain as much contact information as possible from the following people on the scene: the third party, witnesses, towing operators and police.The information relating to the third party should be as detailed as possible: initials, surname, identity number, work and mobile numbers, and email address. You should test the mobile number (dial the number, so that the third party will have your number) and obtain the identity number from a licence or identity document. It is not uncommon for people to provide false information, Marshall says.The when and where are obvious, and you don t need the co-operation of the third party to obtain this information.The what and why entail taking photographs of the accident scene and the vehicles involved (preferably, images of the point of impact before the vehicles are moved).Marshall says photographs showing the direction in which you and the third party were travelling will also give your insurer a clearer idea of how the incident occurred, and complement your description of what happened.He says you must remember that if a third party is involved or property is damaged, you are required to report the accident to the police within 24 hours. Admission of guiltAnother common mistake clients make at the scene of an accident is to admit guilt, Marshall says. In most cases, it takes two parties to cause an accident, so you shouldn t be quick to confess.Your insurer is not bound in any way to any admissions, agreements or statements made by you, he says. And if you are the innocent party, you may not negotiate payment of the excess or accept any offers on behalf of your insurer. Your insurer will attempt to recover the full cost from the guilty party. Agreeing to any settlement on the insurer s part might lead to you being held liable for the recovery cost that your insurer might miss out on as a result of your making agreements, he says.