Fourteen emerging wineries are taking their brands to the streets of Durban, Jozie, Bloem and Pretoria with the aim of letting South Africa know who they are. While many of these companies brands are taking the global market by storm - exporting to countries like Italy, the USA, Belgium; and some have even secured space on the shelves of mass stores like Woolworths and Makro - they have yet to really crack the local market. READ: Delicious almond & roasted banana loaf - recipe And this, as Principle of the Treasure Chest, Melcolm Green, explained, is what the Road Shows aims to achieve by allowing the public and traders/buyers access to taste sessions and access to the winemakers to taste and learn more about their wines. Joburg 22-23 February at Protea Hotel Balalaika Bloemfontein 30 March at President Hotel Naval Hill Pretoria 26-27 April at Premier Hotel Arcadia Green, said what makes Treasure Chest wonderful was its assets - the 14 completely black-owned brand owners. "Now, what makes these 14 wine entrepreneurs special is that the group is 98%women. They have families, they have children and they've made it in a predominantly male dominated industry. And they market internationally!" He explained that the Treasure Chest initiative is about growing these wine brands locally. "Buying these brands will not only help local businesses grow, but it's also about job creation and agricultural growth. READ: Delicious beer box chocolate cake - recipe "These winemakers design their own brands, pay detail to packaging and travel the world to sell their brands. But why should they travel the world to sell their wine when we haven't sold (on a bigger scale) here in South Africa. So Treasure Chest is about selling to local buyers and traders." HOD for Agriculture in KZN, Simphiwe Mkize said the transformation of agriculture is central to the future growth and we'll being of KZN and the country as a whole. "We thank the organisers for the immense exposure of these black winemakers and for the chance for them to meet other powers in the industry... to ensure that black produced wine, especially from this province, receives recognition. This project is about new beginnings." Follow the Road Show: Facebook Treasure Chest Wine Shows Website www.wineshows.co.za