ABBA, Vikings, Ikea, Volvo and Bjorn Borg ... when Swede's enter Britain they leave a lasting mark. Zlatan Ibrahimovic is less than six months into his one year contract at Manchester United but the signs are he is ready to stay. In fact, he is only half-joking when he says he can play until he is 50. Such is both the width of his smile and his influence on Jose Mourinho's side right now that it's difficult to see either of them opting to go solo come next summer. The 35-year-old notched the 15th and 16th goals of his remarkable season in a comfortable 2-0 victory over an out-of-sorts West Brom who felt the full force of the striker's power - both the good and the bad. Gareth McAuley was outfoxed for the opener when a sly nudge knocked him out of his stride to allow Ibrahimovic a simple header from Jesse Lingard's cross. Then right-back Craig Dawson was flattened by an X-rated shoulder charge more at home in a wrestling ring that left him seeing stars. More tough luck followed for Dawson, who was playing for Radcliffe Borough when Ibrahimovic was at Barcelona just seven years back, as he deflected the striker's shot into the net for the killer second. Many doubted Ibrahimovic's physical ability to blend into the rough-and-tumble English game in the twilight of a fabulous career. "The only thing that surprises me is that the game is not controlled by one team - back and front, back and front, and the rhythm is high,” he said. “I knew about this and I was prepared for it. This is how the game is and you have to adapt your body to it. I've played in different championships, different countries and you need to adapt your body to the game and the way it's played here. "I'm settling in. I feel happy, I feel good. Even if I'm 35, in my mind I'm 20. I think I could play also at 50, but it won't be down to me. The older I get, the better I get like red wine! I'm a perfect example of that. The older I get, the better I play." Defender Phil Jones says Ibrahimovic is the ideal role model for the club's youngsters: “He looks after his body, he looks after himself, he's a true professional and anyone growing up, looking for how a top professional should behave, he is the ideal player. "He's enjoying it. He's strong, he scores goals and you could see his quality. It's great that he's scoring so many goals. It's what we need. Maybe we need some more players to chip in but he's doing well for us and long may it continue. “He's a great lad off the pitch and he helps the young lads out. They look up to him and you can see how well he's done." Former United, Albion and England legend Bryan Robson has already seen enough of Ibrahimovic to be convinced that he warrants a new contract. “Zlatan is a fitness fanatic. He goes in the gym, has unbelievable strength on weights and really looks after himself,” the 59-year-old said. “I’d give him another year because he’s been great for the club. He has that charisma. He is a character and the players who don’t get nervous and are up for the challenge are the sort of players you want in your team.” Albion keeper Ben Foster kept Wayne Rooney waiting to join Bobby Charlton on 249 United goals with a fine save to tip Rooney's fiercely struck half-volley onto the crossbar. “It’s a big goal for him,” Foster said. “As we were walking off he said ‘Any chance?’ kind of thing. “He wants that goal. He said against Palace last week the goalie was making worldies but Wayne will get plenty more goals. I didn’t know it was a special goal for him – I just found out at the end there. He hit it well to be fair. “He might not have the pace that he had five or six years ago but who has? But that’s just the way it goes. He’d walk into any other team in the league.” Foster's next assignment is keeping Alexis Sanchez quiet on Boxing Day. The former United goalkeeper is just glad he won't be facing Ibrahimovich until at least April's return fixture. “He’s powerful, he can probe with it. Look at the second goal – most players are looking to pass there but he chips it over the defender then just wellies it. Unfortunately it’s come off Craig but you get what you pay for,” Foster said. “How old is he? 35? He’s brilliant. He’s in great shape. He’s a big bloke but he carries himself really well. He’s mobile as hell as well. For a big bloke, he’s so mobile. You don’t do what he’s done and won what he’s won just by being a big lump. He’s got a few more strings to his bow than that. Money you pay for players like that, that’s what you get.” The Independent