The Keeping Up With The Kardashians star admits there was a time where she was anxious about hitting the shops with her sisters Kim and Kourtney Kardashian as they were much more petite than her. A photo posted by Khloé (@khloekardashian) on Nov 5, 2016 at 11:35pm PDT She said: "I was what I would say is average size at the time. I was very proud of who I was, and I felt, like, so shamed at the time - to go into boutiques or to go denim shopping. "It was something that was super hard for me ... I was embarrassed to go shopping with my sisters, who are petite." READ: Kylie Jenner throws Tyga a pre-birthday surprise party And the 32 year old television personality hates being called plus size and would rather be known as a woman with curves. A photo posted by Khloé (@khloekardashian) on Sep 10, 2016 at 5:30pm PDT She added: "I'm all for women empowerment and I used to be someone they used to label plus size. F**k that. I don't want to be called that - I'm a woman with curves." READ: Mariah Carey shares diet secrets Khloe has released her own denim collection, which is available in sizes 00 to 24, and hopes it will empower women of all different shapes and sizes. Speaking at Fortune's Most Powerful Women Next Gen Summit in California, she shared: "I remember the chubby girl in me and I'm fighting for my chubby self. It wasn't about having a new denim line. A photo posted by Khloé (@khloekardashian) on Oct 17, 2016 at 1:25pm PDT "Creating this collection was about doing something that empowers other women and something that is really going to break down barriers." Meanwhile, Khloe previously admitted she doesn't think she'd "last a day" on Kim's diet. She shared: "We all have such different eating habits that sometimes when we're trying to choose a restaurant I wonder if we're even related. LOL! ... A photo posted by Khloé (@khloekardashian) on Aug 4, 2016 at 12:21pm PDT "I wouldn't last a day on Kim's new diet. It involves cutting out all sugar and carbs but it allows meat and dairy. I like sweets too much and also don't eat red meat or dairy, so I'm saying hell no to this one!"