More than 20&nbsp;families living on a piece of land in Nyanga, along Govan Mbeki Road, will spend New Year s Day homeless after the City of Cape Town s Anti-land Invasion Unit destroyed their homes on Wednesday.The evictions were the second such action by the City in less than a a week, after evictions on Christmas Day. Speaking to the Cape Times on Wednesday, the families said they were not going to give up the land and would rebuild as they have nowhere else to go. Community leaders rallied behind the residents while slating the City. The eviction left Nomonde Mbathiso, a mother of three young children, destitute after her two-room shack was destroyed. When it was broken down, her furniture was damaged as well. Most of the residents were at work when their shacks were broken down. Mbathiso said she was angered by the fact that there was no eviction order for the eviction. Community leader Mncedisi Arosi said representatives would raise the illegal eviction with the City s human settlements and safety and security departments. The welfare of these residents is worrying because most of them are left with nothing because they lost valuables when their houses were destroyed. It is worrying that they must be evicted at this time of the year, and on Christmas Day, when they were supposed to be enjoying time with families, he said.Mteteleli Wanga, whose shack was destroyed as well, said he had nowhere else to go. After the house was demolished on Christmas Day, I organised money to buy new building material. Where am I going to get money to buy building material again? he asked. Wanga, who is staying with friends, said he would rebuild at the end of January. The city is making our lives difficult deliberately. The evictions were posted on Facebook, with Jan Jacobs asking: Why is the city always evicting people at odd times (like between Christmas and new year)? Where did these officers get a court order on the first work day after a long weekend? The City did not respond to questions on Wednesday.Cape Times