The year has been bumpy for political parties, service delivery protests and the average citizen. Arthi Gopi wraps up the year that was in council.This year welcomed eThekwini Municipality s first female mayor since the dawn of democracy, but the year has been bumpy for political parties, service delivery protests and the average citizen. Arthi Gopi wraps up the year that was in councilHigh billsPossibly the most contentious issue this year, one which hit residents across eThekwini deep in their pockets, was inexplicably high utility bills. After the move from the old billing system to the new revenue management system in July - at the same time annual water and electricity increases came into effect - residents were left with bills that in some cases were 100% more than expected. Residents blamed this on the new system, and desperate that their lights and water not be cut off, paid the inflated amounts out of fear. A few weeks later, the city stated it had to take down its online portal for bills, because of a data leak. Despite continuous queries, the municipality maintained there was no fault with the new system, and that people needed to check their bills as they may have increased their consumption. To date, there has been no explanation for the data leak. Public protector s report into GlebelandsOn the eve of her exit as public protector, advocate Thuli Madonsela released a report on the controversial Glebelands issue. Glebelands, in uMlazi, south of Durban, is a hostel in the news because of several murders, believed to be politically motivated. Madonsela investigated, and her report, Stop the Carnage , indicated that the municipality, the SAPS, and the Department of Social Development failed to protect the hostels residents. She said the city s metro police should have acted better in protecting the lives of the residents, and the city should be providing a healthier environment for them to live in. It is believed that more than 50 people have been killed, with community activists calling for immediate action. New city managerCity manager S bu Sithole has less than 30 days left in office. With differing opinions on how effective he has been behind the desk at city hall, the spotlight falls on searching for a new manager who will take control. Sithole took over from controversial manager Mike Sutcliffe, who never failed to respond to issues verbally in public, and tackled those who did not agree with him, head on. Sithole, on the other hand, shied away from the media spotlight, and preferred pushing paper and, as he said, streamlining processes. Come the new year, a new manager will take over and earn about R2.6 million-a-year (R3.1m including benefits), if not more. Sithole indicated in recent media reports that he had reapplied for the position. The new incumbent will have a daunting task of managing the R41.6bn budget, and keeping council officials in line. Council loses its colourful characterIt has long been a source of amusement that wherever a ribbon was to be cut, city councillor Logie Naidoo would be brandishing a pair of shiny and sharp scissors.That was when when the genial and ever-smiling Naidoo was deputy mayor and more recently Speaker at council. But after the local government elections were done and dusted, Naidoo became just a resident in the city. That hasn t stopped the social invites from rolling in though, and Naidoo is seen posting selfies on his Facebook page of the functions he still attends, always smiling.Former mayor James Nxumalo is also in the political wilderness, and not believed to be employed. He is believed to be focusing on his studies.Elections and a new mayorThe local government elections were held on August 3, and the ANC s Zandile Gumede took the reins as the new mayor. The ANC took 126 seats and the DA 61, with the EFF scooping eight seats in the full council. Gumede, on taking office, hit the streets with the launch of various campaigns and community interactions. She launched a WhatsApp line for reporting water leaks (073 148 3477), has overseen the building of houses, and the enforcing of by-laws within the municipality. Hot on the heels of the new executive taking control at city hall, a reshuffle of the committees was organised. Of key concern, said opposition parties, was the dismantling of the finance and procurement committee, which gave all parties access to financial reports and documents. This function has now been taken over by the executive committee,Essence FestivalIt was touted as the biggest festival to hit Durban, and a host of international stars were brought to the city for a week of celebrations. The city held the Essence Festival Durban, which mimicked the Essence Festival New Orleans.The names of Mary Mary, Steve Harvey, Ne-yo, Yolande Adams and the best of South African entertainment were roped in for the Essence Festival Durban, which was held last month. A business fair and a women s economic conference were also held alongside the festival. Opposition parties said the festival did not attract the crowds and spotlight, and was a waste of the almost R6m hosting rights it allegedly spent on the event.And Dora the Explorer and Phat Joe received keys to the cityIf you thought the city only honoured politicians, then seeing cartoon character Dora the Explorer receive Keys to the City when she visited in June, as a way of promoting the city, would have shaken you. Then in October, controversial radio DJ Phat Joe, who recently took over the afternoon slot on East Coast Radio, was awarded keys to the city. Just days into his new job, Phat Joe was on the receiving end of angry listeners who did not like his sexist remarks on air. In and outZandile Gumede was inaugurated as mayor of eThekwini in August. City manager Sbu Sithole may be on his way out of city hall should his contract not be renewed.Independent on Saturday