Cape Town A prosecutor, formerly based at the Atlantis Magistrate s Court, made his first appearance in a Cape Town court on Friday to face charges of sexual assault and possession of child pornography. He was not asked to plead to the charges. The 42-year-old man, who may not be identified until his trial commences, appeared in the Sexual Offences Court in Parow, in Cape Town s northern suburbs, before magistrate Elsa van Zyl. The prosecutor said the State did not oppose his release on bail, and suggested the amount of R2 000. The accused, however, who had been suspended from his job, said he had resigned from his post with effect from December 31, and was currently unemployed. He could afford only R1 000 bail, he told the court, and bail was accordingly fixed at R1 000. The magistrate said he would remain in custody until his bail was paid, and warned him that he would be re-arrested and his bail forfeited to the State if he violated any of the bail conditions. And, she warned, if he was re-arrested he would remain in custody until the finalisation of the case. The charge sheet did not give any details of the charges, and the prosecutor said the charges would be finalised only after the completion of the investigation. The charge sheet gave his address as Malan Street, Robertson, but it transpired that he also had a residential address in Malmesbury. One of the bail conditions bans him from going to Malmesbury or Atlantis without the permission of the investigating officer. The man said he would live in Robertson with his former wife and daughter. It transpired also that he was receiving therapy in Robertson. He was also attending group support sessions in Malmesbury, he told the court. As he addressed the court the accused occasionally rocked on his heels, as lawyers often do, suggesting that he was accustomed to court proceedings. He said he would not appoint a lawyer or request free legal aid representation until the investigation was complete. Only then would he consider his options, he said. One of his bail conditions was that he appear in court again on March 30 next year, and that he attend each subsequent hearing until his case is finalised. Another was that he must inform the investigating detective of any change of address. He has to report to the Robertson police every Friday, and may not communicate with any of the prosecution witnesses, either directly or indirectly. According to the charge sheet, the man was arrested on December 29. African News Agency