Johannesburg - Standard & Poor's downgraded
South Africa's local debt by one notch to BBB on Friday but kept
the country's sovereign credit rating unchanged at BBB-, one
level above "junk" status, while saying the economy was still
struggling. This is according to Reuters, which is reporting that S&P retained its negative outlook on the sovereign
unchanged. The wire service notes the rand gained more than 1.5
percent against the dollar after the ratings release. About 90 percent of South Africa's R2.4 trillion ($173
billion) debt is held in local currency, and the cut could see
the country fall out of global bond indices, preventing
institutional investors from buying its debt. The S&P statement, issued late on Friday, says it has lowered the long-term local currency ratings on
South Africa because its fiscal financing needs are increasing beyond our previous
base-case expectations, while the proportion of rand turnover in the
global foreign exchange market has declined over the last three years.  "South Africa continues to depend on resident and
non-resident purchases of rand-denominated local currency debt to finance its fiscal
and external deficits. Its financing needs have increased beyond our
previous base case, with general government debt set to increase by an average
of 4.9 percent of gross domestic product over 2016-2018, compared to our previous estimate of 4.1 percent for the
same period," The international ratings agency adds the proportion of rand in global foreign exchange turnover has
also declined to just below 1 percent on average over the past three years. "More
broadly, we believe political events have distracted from growth-enhancing
reforms and persistently low GDP growth continues to dampen per capital
wealth levels and the country's fiscal performance." S&P adds the ratings reflect its view
of the country's large and active local currency fixed-income market, as well
as the authorities' commitment to gradual fiscal consolidation. "We
also note that South Africa's institutions, such as the judiciary, remain
strong while the South Africa Reserve Bank (SARB) maintains an independent
monetary policy." The ratings agency adds "South Africa’s pace of economic growth remains a ratings
weakness. It continues to be negative on a per capita GDP basis. While
the government has identified important reforms and supply bottlenecks in South
Africa’s highly concentrated economy, delivery has been piecemeal, in our
opinion. The country’s longstanding skills shortage and adverse terms of trade
also explain poor growth outcomes, as does the corporate sector’s current
preference to delay private investment, despite high margins and large
cash positions." Fitch Ratings on November 25 changed the outlook on its BBB- rating, which is one level above junk, to negative from stable and warned that continued political instability could result in a downgrade. Later the same day, Moody’s Investors Service, which rates South Africa’s debt at the second-lowest investment grade level, with a negative outlook, said in a credit opinion political infighting that generates policy uncertainty and impedes structural reforms could lead to a cut. S&P has marginally revised its real GDP growth
assumptions for South Africa to 0.5 percent for 2016 and 1.4 percent for 2017. Last June, it forecast 0.6 percent for 2016 and 1.5 percent for 2017. "Our revised projections are contingent
on global growth, and, in particular, South Africa’s terms of trade. The
economy remains directly and indirectly linked to demand for commodities,
especially from China." It estimates that real GDP per capita will stand at $5 300 in 2017. BUSINESS REPORT  