Bonang Matheba & AKA  Bonang was already a fashion killer before she and musician AKA, became South Africa’s hottest couple. Together, they are a stylist’s dream and that dream came into reality when they walked the red carpet at the 2016 You Spectacular Awards. Bonang’s Gert-Johan Coetzee cape gown was the most buzzed outfit at the event, as was AKA in his all black get-up. It was a black tie moment done right. More of this, please, South African celebrities. Celine Dion  It will sound callous, but Celine Dion showed everybody how to get their groove back by making fashion statements all year long. After losing her husband, Rene, to cancer, she mourned him and then came back into the scene with an impressive wardrobe. Riky Rick  I’m not a fan of Riky Rick’s style- it’s really out there most times and he tries too hard (see the BET A-List event). But when his looks do work out, it’s a masterclass in modern menswear. From His street style- distressed jeans, t-shirts, jackets and sneakers, to his more formal looks (print suits and pyjama inspired shirt and pants), Riky has given a masterclass on how to get it right he gets fashion and his style has been a highlight in 2016. Fan Bingbing  So by now you know that Fan is the most stylish woman on earth. Vanity Fair finally added her to their International Best Dressed List this year. Well known for her showstopper red carpet gowns, thanks to her habit of wearing Elie Saab, Christopher Bu and Ralph & Russo, this year has seen her change up her style, wowing us with her streetstyle, as we saw when she arrived in Paris for fashion week, in September. Rihanna  No style list is complete without Rihanna. The moment that sealed her fashion moment of 2016, was when she wore that red heart fur coat by Saint Laurent in September. Who wears a puffy red coat with denim shorts, a cap and heels and still manages to look better than some stars styled to the max on a red carpet? Rihanna, that’s who. Lupita Nyong’o  The Oscar winning actress did for the headwrap what Solange Knowles did for the African print- she took it mainstream. During her promo for The Queen of Katwe, Lupita paired all her designer garments with a headwrap, which was a clever nod to the film being set in Africa and also making sure the doek it’s fashion moment. Jaden & Willow Smith  The Smith siblings are on a league of their own. While many find them ‘weird’ they are trendsetters and because of that, they have moved up the fashion hierarchy. From Jaden genderless fashion looks, to Willows cool-girl aesthetic, they are fashion's coolest siblings and the brands (Louis Vuitton, Chanel) have noticed and made them ambassadors. Honourable Mentions: Tilda Swinton, Solange Knowles, Zendaya, Drake, Kendall Jenner, Lady Gaga, Cassper Nyovest, Tinie Tempah, Rami Malek, Somizi Mhlongo, Dineo Moeketsi, Kanye West