Adri Senekal De Wet takes a look at the top associate firms worldwide. British Telecoms: Operate Globally, Deliver LocallyWith customers in 180 countries, British Telecoms (BT) is one of the world s leading providers of communications services and solutions. We have 170 00 people serving leading multinational companies - meaning we operate globally, but deliver locally, said BT Africa, Africa Pacific and United Arab Emirates President, Kevin Taylor. We re organised around our 6 200 customers - and our unique breadth of scope, reach and capability means we solve the most complex business communications requirements on a global scale. Simply put, we help our customers use communications to find new ways of doing business. And it s all underpinned by world-leading security and customer service. Our portfolio strategy, the Cloud of Clouds, combines cloud services, (information technology) integration skills, a global network and professional security expertise. It means our customers can connect easily and securely to the &shy;applications and data they need, wherever they are in the world , said Taylor during his recent visit to South Africa.BT in South AfricaBT has been in South Africa for more than 16 years and continues to expand its operations in sub-Saharan Africa. BT Communications Services South Africa entered into an agreement with Contact Us AEEI (previously Sekunjalo Investments) in 2008, under which the latter acquired a 30percent share in BT s South African business. This partnership is a demonstration of BT s long-term commitment to South Africa and the broad-based black economic empowerment (BBBEE) agenda. BT is focused on serving the increasing requirements of both South Africa-based multinationals expanding globally as well as global companies that are expanding their presence into South Africa and the rest of Africa. BT has experience across all industry sectors, and has unrivalled expertise in the financial services, mining, oil and gas, government, health care, and media and broadcast sectors. Customers include more than 300 blue-chip clients in South Africa, including Anglo American, Unilever, Thomson Reuters, Barclays Bank Africa and Visa.BT has extended its next generation global internet protocol network to three global Points of Presence within South Africa. BT s Global Media Network is also being extended to South Africa with the deployment of the Media and Broadcast Node in Johannesburg, enabling the delivery of high-quality, real-time video content between South Africa and popular media hubs worldwide. BT has also extended its global managed voice network into South Africa, providing carrier-grade global voice services including global termination services for outbound voice requirements - both mobile and fixed-line originated, global inbound voice services for local call-centre operations, as well as extending BT Conferencing services into the region.Siemens: Milestones of a 170-year history1887Werner von Siemens was a responsible entrepreneur and far-sighted inventor whose name soon became a household word around the world. Far ahead of his time, he recognised and fostered the link between science and technology. In my youth, I dreamed of founding an enterprise of world standing comparable to that of the Fugger dynasty, said Werner von Siemens.2020Digitalisation in the futureWe will be living in a world that is increasingly interconnected by complex and heterogeneous systems; by 2020, the amount of data stored worldwide will have grown to 44 zettabytes. About 50 billion devices will be linked online. Siemens fast facts:Globalisation - Global competition is impacting productivity and production locations. Last year the estimated gross domestic product was about $73.2 billion (R1 trillion).Urbanisation - In 2050, nearly 70 percent of the global population will be living in cities (up from 54 percent today). Each year, the world s cities grow by about 50 million people. As a result, metropolitan areas are increasingly investing in infrastructure. Demographic change - By 2050, the global population will have grown from the current level of 7.3 billion to 9.7 billion - and needs will rise accordingly. Back in 1950, there were only 2.5 billion people on the planet. In addition, average life expectancy will have risen from today s figure of 73 years to 83 years by 2050.Climate change - According to scientists, in the summer of this year, the Earth s atmosphere had the highest carbon dioxide concentration in 800 000 years. Last year the UN Climate Change Conference in Paris resolved to limit global warming made by humans to well below 2&deg;Celsius. Siemens aims to become carbon neutral by 2030 - &quot;We are investing over e100 million in measures to reduce our carbon footprint.&quot;Siemens businessPower and Gas, Wind Power and Renewables, Energy Management, Building Technologies, Mobility, Digital Factory, Process Industries and Drives, Financial Services, Siemens Healthineers. A strong partner all over the world: Europe1, CIS, Africa, Middle East, he Americas, Asia, Australia, ChinaSiemens aims to further strengthen its position as a digital company and achieve double-digit growth in software, digital services and cloud platforms every year through 2020. Siemens generated revenue of more than e1 billion this year. Innovation - To further strengthen its power of innovation, Siemens is planning to increase its investments in research and development (R&amp;D) in fiscal 2017 by about e300 million to about e5 billion. Since fiscal 2014, the company s R&amp;D investments have grown by about 25 percent. A major part of these additional funds are earmarked for automation, &shy;digitalisation, decentralised energy systems and the new venturing unit next47. Patents - Siemens has also improved in the area of patents. As of September 30 this year, the company s continuing operations held about 59 800 patents worldwide. At the end of fiscal 2015, the figure was 56 200. In fiscal 2016, Siemens employees submitted about 7 500 invention disclosures - an average of about 30 per workday. The number of R&amp;D employees at the company averaged 33 000 in fiscal 2016 - about 800 more than in the previous year.Nokia Siemens NetworksNokia Networks (formerly Nokia Solutions and Networks [NSN] and Nokia Siemens Networks [NSN]) is a multinational data networking and telecommunications equipment company headquartered in Espoo, Finland, and wholly owned subsidiary of Nokia Corporation. It started as a joint venture between Nokia of Finland and Siemens of Germany known as Nokia Siemens Networks. Nokia Networks has operations in around 120 countries. In 2013, Nokia acquired 100 percent of Nokia Networks, buying all of Siemens shares. In April 2014 the NSN name was phased out as part of rebranding process.2010 - MotorolaOn July 19, 2010, Nokia Siemens Networks announced it would acquire the wireless-network equipment of Motorola. The acquisition was completed on April 29, 2011 for $975m in cash. As of the transaction about 6900 employees transferred to Nokia Networks.2011 - Mobile equipmentOn November 23, 2011, Nokia Siemens Networks announced that it would refocus its business on mobile broadband equipment, the fastest-growing segment of the market. This refocus resulted in the restructuring of the company and the planned layoffs of 17000 employees. The plan reduced the company s work force by 23 percent from its 2011 level of 74000, and helped the company trim annual operating expenses by $1.35 billion by the end of 2013. 2013 - Nokia NetworksOn August 7, 2013, the company completed the acquisition of Siemens stake and renamed itself Nokia Networks. On April 29, 2014, Nokia Corporation announced that NSN would henceforth be known as the Nokia Networks. It was also announced that Rajeev Suri, the chief executive of NSN was appointed as president and chief executive of Nokia Corporation, effective May 1, 2014.SAAB - 70 Years: Developing technology creating a safer society Saab provides a broad range of world-leading products, services and solutions within military defence and civil security to the African market. An impressive range of defence forces across the globe are using South African electronic warfare and avionics technology being designed and produced at Saab Grintek defence facilities in South Africa. Saab also has business units and local employees in Cape Town, South Africa, in Gaborone, Botswana and in Nairobi, Kenya. Saab is a global company with operations and employees in about 40 countries around the world. Through innovative, collaborative and pragmatic thinking, Saab constantly develops, adopts and improves new technology to meet customers changing needs.Saab Grintek defence has reinforced its position as a leading South African defence and security company, bringing capabilities &shy;including electronic warfare systems, sensor technology, command and control, training systems, avionics, security and support solutions to the African and international markets.SA BEE Partnerships - AEEI We are proud to have AEEI as a strategic partner and we see this agreement as further strengthening our commitment to the industrial growth and prosperity of South Africa at the same time supporting our endeavours to supply security solutions in Africa, said Leif Karlsson, acting chief executive at Saab Grintek defence.Best Exporter AwardsAs the export market represents almost 75 percent of the South African company s total turnover, Saab Grintek defence was awarded the Best Exporter Award by the SA Premier Business Awards in 2013, 2014 and 2016. Hosted by the Department of Trade and Industry, in partnership with Proudly South Africa and Brand South Africa, the award recognises the spirit of success, innovation and good business ethics in the economy.Saab Grintek defence has reinforced its position as a leading South African defence and security company, bringing capabilities &shy;including electronic warfare systems, sensor technology, command and control, training systems, avionics, security and support solutions to the African and international markets.Trevor RamanSaab announced earlier this year the appointment of the new president and chief executive, Trevor Raman, to run its local South African operations company, Saab Grintek Defence (SGD) in Centurion, Pretoria. Trevor kicked off in his new role on March 1, 2016 and has been placed at Saab Grintek Defence facilities in Highveld, Centurion.SAAB Fast FactsFor 70 years Saab has been developing technology aimed at creating a safer and more confident society. From peace-keeping operations to real combat scenarios - today s missions demand the seamless implementation of strategies. With more than 4 000 aircraft built, Saab knows how to develop, integrate and maintain complete aircraft systems.BUSINESS REPORT