Kimberley - While others are busy deciding on what presents to buy for Christmas, we have to decide on a coffin to bury our child in, the family of a man, who was killed in accident between a motorbike and an SUV during the early hours of Thursday morning, said.Ruan Cronje, who was the son of well-known Kimberley diamond digger, Seun Cronje, died in an accident on Fabricia Road after midnight on Thursday.According to the mother of the deceased, Debbie Cloete, a security guard came to her son s aid after he was hit by an alleged drunken driver. The security guard went over and felt Ruan s pulse, however, he was already dead. He then rushed over to the man in the SUV and took his keys when he saw that he wanted to drive off. He told him that he had to wait for the police. When the police arrived at the scene they arrested the man, she said.She said she got news about her son s death from a friend. I got a call from a friend telling me that I should come because Ruan has been involved in an accident. I am not sure where Ruan was earlier that night, but it appears as if he was on his way home. The paramedics did not allow me to get to him and my friend, who called me, told me that he did not make it. I saw him lying in the road under a space blanket. I was hysterical and could not believe that he was dead. I called my daughter and my mother while several other friends on the scene called Ruan s father. I stayed there until they took his body away, Cloete said.Seun Cronje said he was in Bloemfontein when he received news of his son s accident. A woman who knows me called and said that she came across an accident involving my son. She also told me that he had died. A friend later called and told me to get back to Kimberley. When I got to the scene a lot of people were crying and I could not deal with it so I went home, he said.Ruan was due to become a father in February next year. His girlfriend, Natasha Deysel, said she is devastated and she now has to raise their child alone. Ruan called me earlier (on the night of the accident) and said that he was on his way home. I never imagined that would be the last time I got to speak to him. We had so many plans, but now the only plans ahead of us are his funeral arrangements, Deysel said.The family indicated that they wanted the law to deal with the man responsible for their son s death. We do not know the person but he has stolen something precious from us. Ruan was a very loving person. He had so many friends and we have lost a dear person. The thought that the person responsible allegedly wanted to flee the scene is unforgivable. What if Ruan had still been alive . . . one cannot just leave someone to die. The person responsible should take responsibility for his actions. We are glad that he has been arrested and hope that justice would prevail, they said.Ruan s funeral will take place on Wednesday at the Bikers Church.Police spokesperson, Colonel Mohale Ramatseba, said the driver of the SUV was arrested on charges of culpable homicide, drunken driving and reckless and negligent driving. The accident between the Suzuki motorbike and Jeep occurred at about 1:20am on Thursday morning. The 23-year-old motorbike rider died on the scene while the 43-year-old driver of the Jeep was not injured. He appeared in court on Thursday and the matter was postponed, Ramatseba said.DFA