Durban - Predictions about lagging economies, increasing prices and more belt-tightening are not affecting the super rich - especially if the price tag on the world s most luxurious whiskies are anything to go by. This week, Jakes Hattingh, from Umhlanga-based Norman Goodfellows, said Glenfiddich 21-year-old (R3 000) and 26-year-old (R6 500) were proving to be the most popular whiskies for Durban tipplers, with Johnny Walker King George V at R6 000. Even though it s being said there is a recession at the moment, I don t believe it. We have been doing a roaring trade, said Hattingh, describing trading as a madhouse . He said when it came to top whiskies, Durban s elite favoured Chivas Regal The Icon at R50 000.The company also offers a Balvenie 50-year-old at R730 000 or Glenfiddich 50 year at R65 0000, although these two have to be ordered from Joburg.Although Macallan, Glenfiddich and Chivas labels are among the most expensive and sought-after whiskies, it is the Scotch whisky Isabella Islay which is the most expensive whisky in the world at R86 million - not least because the handcrafted bottle is encrusted with more than 8000 diamonds.According to the UK-based Luxury Beverage Company s website, Isabella Islay whisky comes from the Island of Islay, often known as the Queen of Hebrides. The whisky comes in two editions - The Original and The Special Edition - matured in caskets for years and classed as very old single malt whisky .The Original comes with a $6.2m price tag and is the most expensive whisky in the world. It comes with 8 500 diamonds and nearly 300 rubies. Presented in the finest diamond and gold crystal bottle, The Original uses only diamonds for the whole surface. The encrusted writing is in rubies, the decorator s stopper is the finest white gold and the peak of the neck of the decanter is the finest English Crystal. The Special Edition would set you back about R10m, with a decanter of English Crystal and the neck ridged of an ancient design and then crafted in an intricate leaf by a master crystal maker. The body of the decanter is covered in white gold and the pinnacle of the neck and decanter are crafted in diamonds by master jewellers . The wording is diamond encrusted. The Luxury Beverage Company also offers the world s first luxury Halaal non-alcoholic beverage, The Ruwa, which retails for R76m. It has more than 8000 diamonds, 200 rubies and the equivalent of two bars of white gold, all covering a fine English Crystal decanter. There are no prices on the Isabella Islay site, simply a contact number. If you have to ask, you cannot afford it. Independent on Saturday