WARNING: VIDEO CONTAINS VIOLENCE AND STRONG LANGUAGE&nbsp;Cape Town A Cape Flats actor who stars in the local gangster movie Noem My Skollie was assaulted allegedly by members of the same gang he portrays in the critically-acclaimed film.A video of the scuffle, which apparently took place outside Mzoli s restaurant in Gugulethu, went viral on social media. David Manuel plays Gums , a notorious 28s prison gang leader in the movie, which is South Africa's Oscar submission.But fully fledged 28s allegedly didn t like Manuel s portrayal of their members sleeping with men, and they got hold of him and assaulted him. In the video, Manuel can be heard saying: Way, daai gaan nie oor die agge (28s) nie. Dit gaan oor daai man se storie (The movie is not about the 28s. It's that man's story), referring to filmmaker John W Fredericks, whose life the movie is based on. WARNING: VIDEO CONTAINS VIOLENCE AND STRONG LANGUAGE&nbsp;While being smacked around and punched in the face by a group of men, a voice in the background says: Jy maak * k** movie oor die agge (You made a s**t movie about the 28s).The Daily Voice visited Manuel s home in Gugulethu, but he could not be reached.Fredericks, who wrote Noem My Skollie, said the attack on the actor was unnecessary . I think this is stupid, I m busy with other projects and I can t take note of this nonsense, Fredericks said. I moved on a long time ago. I m 71 years old; I was 17 when I went to prison, that was many years ago, they can t tell me what happened. I was there, he said. The Daily Voice spoke to a 28s member who explained why the gangsters are so upset with Manuel. The problem we have with this is that now people have the wrong perception of information regarding our gang that was given in the movie, said the gangster, who asked to remain anonymous. He portrays verkeerde besigheid (the wrong things), saying that we sodomise laaities (children), which is not true. That looks as if it is the initiation to get into the gang, but it's not. Yes, we are a big gang, but we don t take people s manhood from them. They say we sodomise people, maar dis nie hoe dit is nie (that's not how it is). When asked what the real initiation process is, he explained: If you come into jail, ons toets hoe sterk jou hart is. Jy moet bloed vat om te kan bewys jy s sterk (We test how committed you are. You have to draw blood to show how strong you are). Maybe with weaker people something like that (sodomy) can happen. Why did they bring that to the 28s side? Yet, they portray the 26s as if they are peaceful and saviours. However, he said he has nothing against the movie itself. We don t have a problem with the movie. The storyline is of the struggles faced by that man, he said. &quot;Yes, Gums said he just followed a script, but still he is a 28, he also gave his input ... Gums is confused, maybe he was sodomised in his life. Daily Voice