 Annelene Pillay, a customer service controller at a shipping company, was shot five times, allegedly by her ex-boyfriend. According to CCTV footage, the deceased is seen leaving her workplace and approaching her vehicle in the car park after clocking off her time, she notices a black car pull up and is immediately alarmed. As she runs up the staircase, the suspect fires five shots through the gap of the staircase rail from where she falls and he flees the scene.  According to a family representative, the deceased was frequently stalked, harassed and threatened with murder.  In the 10 years of courtship, Pillay lived in fear. She faced murder threats, physical abuse, and emotional trauma and was forced to financially support him. The accused was unemployed.  According to Marcello Roderick, friend to deceased, the accused was possessive, jealous and was in control of Pillay’s finances.  “He had a split personality. He always wanted to have the last say. He threatened any guy that spoke to Anna, even her closest friends. He had psychotic tendencies. He didn’t want her leaving the house. She was scared to leave him,” said Roderick.  It is known to IOL that Pillay spoke to her mother and sister 15 minutes prior to her death. She told her sister how scared she was of her ex-boyfriend and sensed he could be around her workplace.  Speaking to IOL, Crisantha Pillay (sister of deceased), spoke highly of her elder sister and was proud of her achievements.  “Anna was such an amazing person with a unique personality. She was different from my sister and I. She was funny and formed a place in everyone’s heart. She was a reserved yet hard-working individual and she had the most beautiful smile, said a teary sister.  Her family believes that her last six months were her happiest. Pillay seemed free, grew closer to her family and became her old self again.  KZN SAPS confirmed that the body of a 27-year-old woman was found on South Coast Road, with gunshot wounds.  “According to members at the scene, the victim was found on South Coast Road outside her place of employment, next to a VW Polo, which is believed to belong to the victim. The victim sustained five gunshot wounds to her head and was declared dead at the scene by emergency services personnel. The suspect fled the scene in his vehicle, leaving behind the 9mm short firearm with no serial number. The firearm was recovered at the scene, along with five spent 9mm cartridges,” said eThekwini Inner South Cluster communications officer, Priya Nunkumar.  The suspect appeared in court on Friday and has pleaded guilty.  This year’s 16 Days of Activism for No Violence against Women and Children theme is, "Count me in: Together moving a non-violent South Africa forward." IOL