Johannesburg One of the suspects accused of sexually assaulting two women and drowning their husbands in Rhodes Park in Johannesburg told the court that his arrest was a conspiracy by the police. Mduduzi Lawrence Mathibela, 32, previously told the High Court sitting at the Palm Ridge Magistrate's Court that the head of police gave out an order for his arrest and that police were awarded with bonuses for his arrest. Wearing a white long sleeve golf shirt with caramel chino pants and Lacoste sneakers, Mathibela kept a straight face as he told the court on Friday that all the evidence and witnesses produced thus far were part of a conspiracy to have him behind bars. His DNA was found in the one woman who was raped, as well as on her underwear. State prosecutor Monde Mbaqa cross examined Mathibela on a number of aspects of his testimony and several contradictions. Mathibela, Edmore Ndlovu, 23 and Thabo Nkala, 25, who are reportedly friends, have flatly denied knowing each other. However, Mathibela confirmed that he had seen his two co-accused around Yeoville but had never spoken to them. &quot;But it's surprising accused one and two told the court that they don't know you at all, yet you are saying you usually saw them around Yeoville,&quot; Mbaqa questioned. Struggling for answers at times, Mathibela would turn to his claims that police had been paid to lie against him. &quot;So you are like a celebrity of this case and everyone is after you?&quot; asked Mbaqa. &quot;Well, my attorney from the lower courts told me that I'm a celebrity because I'm all over the news. &quot;The State awarded people for my arrest and police received bonuses for apprehending me,&quot; he said. Mbaqa went through Mathibela's statement even though Mathibela had said the confession was a fabrication by police. He asked the accused why would police tell him to mention other crimes not related to this matter and also included the names of his family members. &quot;Police knew everything about me,&quot; he replied. &quot;Sir, are you saying police gathered information about you and traced all your movements so that they can pin you to this crime.&quot; Mathibela confirmed this. &quot;Sir, all these things that you are saying, are they registering in your mind?&quot; &quot;Yes,&quot; he replied. &quot;So you are a celebrity?&quot; Mbaqa enquired. &quot;I think I was an easy target.&quot; However, Mathibela appeared stumped and was unable to explain how his DNA was found in the rape victim and on her underwear. &quot;I can't explain it because I don't understand how DNA works and I'm not sure how it linked me to the rape.&quot; &quot;Yes, you can't explain it because the only explanation is that you raped her,&quot; Mbaqa retorted. Mathibela insisted that he still did not understand exactly what DNA was. &quot;Don't act stupid, the witness explained how DNA works and explained that you get a DNA from your mother and father. He also explained that two people can't share the same DNA.&quot; A DNA expert previously told the court that Mathibela was also linked to three other unsolved rape cases. Mathibela then blamed the DNA expert and accused him of using old DNA samples to link him to the crime. The matter was adjourned to December 13. African News Agency