Johannesburg Following a go-slow strike by City of Ekurhuleni refuse removers, the municipality said it has contingency plans to pick up the backlog of rubbish. The main affected area is Germiston as well as the suburbs of Elsburg, Wadeville, Sunnyridge, Dinwiddie, Albermarle, Lambton and Elandsfontein. The workers are allegedly striking for more overtime pay. We have put plans in place to deal with this massive backlog and plans are in place to ensure that the service is normalized as soon as possible. We have teams working day and night to deal with the backlog. We have also pulled resources from other parts of the region to ensure that this backlog is set aside, said mayoral spokesman Zweli Dlamini. The city will soon be engaging the workers with regards to their grievances to ensure that the root of the problem is dealt with, he added. As a city we understand the frustrations of our people in this regard and sincerely apologise to our communities for this unfavourable position. We appeal for a little bit more patience from the community as we deal with this problem, he said. The mopping up operations started on Wednesday, and will run until the backlog is resolved. Dlamini also apologised to residents for the inconvenience cause. @annacox Johannesburg Following a go-slow strike by City of Ekurhuleni refuse removers, the municipality said it has contingency plans to pick up the backlog of rubbish. The main affected area is Germiston as well as the suburbs of Elsburg, Wadeville, Sunnyridge, Dinwiddie, Albermarle, Lambton and Elandsfontein. The workers are allegedly striking for more overtime pay. We have put plans in place to deal with this massive backlog and plans are in place to ensure that the service is normalized as soon as possible. We have teams working day and night to deal with the backlog. We have also pulled resources from other parts of the region to ensure that this backlog is set aside, said mayoral spokesman Zweli Dlamini. The city will soon be engaging the workers with regards to their grievances to ensure that the root of the problem is dealt with, he added. As a city we understand the frustrations of our people in this regard and sincerely apologise to our communities for this unfavourable position. We appeal for a little bit more patience from the community as we deal with this problem, he said. The mopping up operations started on Wednesday, and will run until the backlog is resolved. Dlamini also apologised to residents for the inconvenience cause. @annacox [email&#160;protected] The Star