Washington - President-elect Donald Trump
announced Exxon Mobil Corp's Rex Tillerson as his choice for
secretary of state on Tuesday, praising the business leader as a
successful international dealmaker who has led a global
operation. Tillerson's experience in diplomacy stems from making deals
with foreign countries for the world's largest energy company,
although questions have been raised about the oil executive's
relations with Russia. "He will be a forceful and clear-eyed advocate for America's
vital national interests, and help reverse years of misguided
foreign policies and actions that have weakened America's
security and standing in the world," Trump said in a statement. Tillerson said he shared Trump's "vision for restoring the
credibility of the United States' foreign relations and
advancing our country's national security." Trump picked Tillerson, 64, after the Texan was backed by
several Republican establishment figures including former
Secretary of State James Baker, former Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice and former Defense Secretary Robert Gates, the
transition official said. Their support is seen as key to helping Tillerson get past a
possibly contentious Senate confirmation battle likely to focus
on his relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin. In 2013, Putin bestowed a Russian state honor, the Order of
Friendship, on Tillerson, citing his work "strengthening
co-operation in the energy sector". Trump judged in making the pick that Tillerson could
adequately address questions about his relations with Russia, an
official said. Lawmakers from both major parties have raised questions
about Tillerson and former U.N. Ambassador John Bolton, who has
been mentioned as a possible No. 2 State Department official and
who has voiced hawkish views on Iraq and Iran. Separately, a source close to the transition said Trump had
chosen former Texas Governor Rick Perry as his nominee for
energy secretary, with an announcement expected soon. Perry met
Trump on Monday at Trump Tower in New York. Republicans and Democrats said Tillerson, who is president
of Exxon Mobil Corp, would be asked about his contacts
with Russia, having met Putin several times. He won fresh praise
from Moscow on Monday. Senator John McCain, a leading foreign policy voice and the
2008  Republican candidate for president, told Reuters in an
interview: "I have concerns. It's very well known that he has a
very close relationship with Vladimir Putin." There has been controversy over the role alleged Russian
cyber hacking may have had on the outcome of the Nov. 8
presidential election, in which Trump defeated Democrat Hillary
Clinton.  While busily filling out his Cabinet, Trump is seeking to
answer questions about how he will separate himself from his
far-flung business empire before taking over the presidency on
Jan. 20. He had planned a news conference on Thursday to lay out the
details but delayed it until Tuesday due to what aides said was
the crush of picking people to serve in his administration. In a series of late-night tweets on Monday, Trump said he
would be leaving his business before January 20 so he can focus
full-time on the presidency and that he would leave his two
sons, Donald Trump Jr and Eric Trump, to manage it. He did not mention his daughter, Ivanka, who has been a
central player in Trump's business affairs and who is said to be
considering a move to Washington to help her father. "No new deals will be done during my term(s) in office,"
Trump said. He said he would hold a press conference "in the near future
to discuss the business, Cabinet picks and all other topics of
interest. Busy times!" Trump chose Tillerson over 2012 Republican presidential
nominee Mitt Romney, who had famously criticized Trump during
the party's fight for a nominee this year. Trump called Romney
to tell him he had decided to choose someone else for the job. "It was an honor to have been considered for secretary of
state of our great country," Romney said in a Facebook posting
on Monday night. "My discussions with President-elect Trump have been both
enjoyable and enlightening. I have very high hopes that the new
administration will lead the nation to greater strength,
prosperity and peace." Reuters