Philadelphia - Did Bill Cosby drug and molest young women as part of a "signature" crime spree spanning five decades? Prosecutors preparing for his sexual assault trial hope to call 13 of about 60 accusers to show just that. Cosby's defence insists the women's memories are tainted at best and will ask a suburban Philadelphia judge to keep them off the witness stand at the June trial. The Associated Press does not typically name people who say they are sexual assault victims. However, trial accuser Andrea Constand has given consent through her lawyer, while 10 others named below have spoken publicly. Another woman has given her account under a pseudonym, while two others have not spoken publicly and could not be reached for comment. The accounts below, listed chronologically, note ages for each woman and Cosby at the time, as described by prosecutors. The defence responses to each account follow. ANDREA CONSTAND Ages then: She was 30; he was 66. Constand told police in 2005 that Cosby drugged and sexually assaulted her a year earlier at his suburban Philadelphia estate. Constand, a Temple University basketball team manager, said he gave her three unlabeled blue pills to "relax" as she discussed a career change. She said she was semi-conscious when he digitally penetrated her. Cosby, a high-profile Temple booster and trustee, is charged with sexually assaulting a person unable to give consent, a felony that could bring 10 years in prison upon conviction. The defence says her story has evolved and there were other times they were sexually intimate. Cosby has pleaded not guilty. JANE DOE 1 Ages then: She was 21; he was 30. She was a flight attendant when she met Cosby in about 1964. After being friends for several months, she said, he offered her Champagne at the Drake Hotel in Chicago, which left her unable to ward off his sexual advances before she passed out. The defence says Cosby's companion on the flight, a potential witness, has died and the woman kept a sweatshirt she wore during their encounter "like a treasured souvenir." LINDA BROWN Ages then: She was 21; he was 31. Brown's agent sent the aspiring model to attend Cosby's show in Toronto and have dinner with him afterward in 1969. He invited her to his hotel room to give her a gift and offered her a soda that caused her to black out, she said, before raping her. The defence questions how she "blacked out" after two sips of soda. CINDRA LADD Ages then: She was 21; he was 31. Ladd, a model-turned-Hollywood executive married to former MGM chairman Alan Ladd Jr., met Cosby in 1969 when he offered career advice. They were at his friend's house in New York one day when she complained about having a headache and he gave her a pill he called "a miracle cure" from his doctor. She became incapacitated, and Cosby raped her, she said. The defence says she only assumes they had sex because she had blacked out. JANE DOE 2 Ages then: She was in her early 20s; he was 32. She met Cosby through her job at the Playboy Club in New York in the early 1970s. He offered her quaaludes in a limousine one day, which she said she declined. She then had three or four glasses of Champagne but believes they contained an intoxicant that left her unconscious. She woke up naked in a hotel room feeling sore and said she had been sexually assaulted. The defence says her case differs from Constand's because Doe 2 and Cosby were closer in age and had met only twice. DONNA MOTSINGER Ages then: She was 26; he was 33. Motsinger was a waitress at the Trident restaurant in Sausalito, California, a favorite of Cosby's. He befriended Motsinger and her 9-year-old son. In 1972, Motsinger said, she accepted an invitation to Cosby's show and drank wine he gave her in the limousine on the way there. When a headache ensued, she took a pill he handed her. She said she recalls being fondled before waking up the next day, nearly naked, at her own home. The defence says that the restaurant was "a notorious drug mecca" and that Motsinger dated a founder of an LSD-linked band of hippies. MARGIE SHAPIRO Ages then: She was 19; he was 37. Shapiro worked at Castle Donuts in Santa Monica, California, in 1975 when Cosby stopped by. He invited her to the set of "Mother, Jugs & Speed" and then to a dinner party, she says, but instead took her to a house near the Playboy Mansion, where they played pinball, fueled by Cosby's challenge that whoever lost would have to take a pill she believed to be a quaalude. She lost. She said she recalls waking up to find Cosby having sex with her. The defence says that the doughnut shop has closed and that the boss died, leaving it unable to thoroughly investigate her account. THERESE SERIGNESE Ages then: She was 18 or 19; he was 38 or 39. Serignese, now a nurse, was in the gift shop of the Las Vegas Hilton in about 1975 when she met Cosby. He later invited her to his show and then to a room backstage, where he gave her two pills that left her incapacitated before he raped her, she said. Cosby, in a 2006 deposition in Constand's lawsuit, testified that he gave Serignese quaaludes before a consensual sexual encounter. The defence says "her story about their lengthy 20-year relationship after the incident (many would call it an affair) has changed drastically over the years." LINDA KIRKPATRICK Ages then: She was 25; he was 43. Kirkpatrick met Cosby while playing against him in a tennis tournament in 1981. He offered her tickets to his show at the Las Vegas Hilton, where he gave her a drink in his dressing room that left her incapacitated, she said. She next recalls him being on top of her, kissing her and rubbing against her. The defence says her account is unique among Cosby accusers because they were at a party, surrounded by people, when she took the drink. JANICE BAKER-KINNEY Ages then: She was 23 or 24; he was 45. Baker-Kinney, then a Harrah's bartender in Reno, Nevada, went to a pizza party at a nearby home where Cosby was staying in 1982. He insisted she take two pills, she said, before the backgammon game they were playing went blurry. She said she recalls seeing her blouse unbuttoned and his pants unzipped before she awoke naked with signs she had been sexually assaulted. The defence says her story is "nothing like Ms. Constand's" because she only met Cosby once, "voluntarily" took quaaludes and apologised for passing out. HEIDI THOMAS Ages then: She was 24; he was 47. Thomas' agent sent the aspiring actress to meet Cosby for career advice at a Harrah's hotel in Reno in 1984, but the limousine he sent instead took her to a private house where she said he gave her a drink so she could play the intoxicated person in a script he gave her. During intermittent bouts of consciousness, she said, she was naked and Cosby forced her to perform oral sex. The defence says she has given three versions of her story. REBECCA NEAL Ages then: She was about 28; he was 48. Neal worked as a masseuse at a Las Vegas health club where Cosby played tennis in the mid-1980s. He befriended her mother and aunt there, leading her to accept an invitation to his show at the Las Vegas Hilton and dinner afterward. Cosby urged her to have a drink set before her while he ate. She said he later raped her in his room while she was too disoriented to give consent. The defence says she knew him only for a few months, unlike Constand, and has said a waiter served the shot of vodka. LISE-LOTTE LUBLIN Ages then: She was 23; he was 50. Lublin was an aspiring actress when she met Cosby in 1989. She and her mother went for a run with Cosby, and he gave them show tickets before he invited her to the Elvis suite of the Las Vegas Hilton to practice acting improvisation. He prodded her to take two drinks to relax, which she ultimately did. She said she recalls seeing Cosby stroking her hair and walking down a hall before she woke up at home two days later. She said she believes she was sexually assaulted. The defence says Lublin assumes she is a victim based on other media accounts but can only remember Cosby stroking her hair. KACEY Ages then: She was 29; he was 58. The witness, who agreed to be photographed but not share her identity in the media, worked for one of Cosby's agents and had known the entertainer for six years when he invited her to lunch at his bungalow at the Bel Air Hotel in 1996 to discuss her acting ambitions. He was in a robe and slippers when she arrived and offered her wine and a pill that she consumed after he reassured her it was safe. She said she then recalls being sexually assaulted by Cosby on his bed. The defence says she went to the bungalow despite saying she had once rebuffed Cosby's advances before and had no interest in acting. AP