Johannesburg - Despite the tough schedule, two Saheti School matriculants took time off their gruelling studies to participate in the Midmar Mile. Marissa Diakoyannis and Eleni Thomadakis were part of the Saheti team that participated in the gruelling 1.6km swimming competition that takes place annually in Pietermaritzburg. This year was Eleni s fourth year and Marissa s third participating in the competition. Aspiring doctor Marissa said it was important for her to stay active to strike a balance between work and her social life. Marissa, 18, hopes to continue participating in the event, even though she won't be at Saheti any more. Matriculant Marissa Diakoyannis from Saheti School in Johannesburg. Picture: Bhekikhaya MabasoEleni also obtained her full colours in swimming after taking part in the Midmar Mile. I m very active, and feel this is vital in striking a balance between my studies and social life. Swimming helped me a lot throughout my year, Eleni said. It has been a really tough year for me. I need to make sure that I get really good marks so that I can study medicine, she said, adding that she hoped to study at Wits University. Her advice to next year s matrics and even for Grade 11 pupils is that you need to make sure that you have a balance .Eleni, who has attended Saheti since she was five, wants to take the accounting industry by storm. It has been a tough year for me. I tried my best and believe what is meant to be will be. Hard work really pays off. I kept a balanced life this year, and since I got my full academic colours this year I am hopeful that my final marks will be great, said Eleni.The girls dedication paid off as both got eight distinctions. Check out our special Matric Results page here.Eleni obtained her distinctions in Business Studies, English, isiZulu, Life Orientation, Life Sciences, Mathematics, Modern Greek and Physical Sciences; and Marissa obtained her distinctions in Afrikaans, Business Studies, English, History, Life Orientation, Mathematics, Modern Greek and Physical Sciences. Eleni said matric had taught her a lot about her capabilities. Time management is extremely important, in all aspects of life. It is something that you grow into. It doesn't just happen. In my matric year I learned how to manage my time properly. And I also learned to cope with pressure, she said.The two girls described the past two nights as nerve-racking . To calm their nerves, they watched TV and spent time chatting to schoolmates who were in the same boat . Later today about eight of my friends and I are going out for a late lunch, just for moral support before the big day, Marissa said.Eleni said that, besides watching TV, her parents and younger siblings were chatting to her just to distract her from thinking too much about the results. I've been reflecting on the year for the past two days and couldn t sleep last night (Wednesday). But whatever happens, happens, she said. @heidigiokosThe Star