The minister’s spokesman, Sandile Ngidi, confirmed this to the Daily News on Monday. Although Ngidi said he could not, at this stage, reveal the names of the acting police commissioners to be permanently appointed, he did confirm the selection process was finalised. He explained that by addressing the issue of suspended police commissioners and those acting in these positions, Nhleko’s office was attempting to bring about transformation in the police force. “The minister is working hard to bring about stability and change in the police force. In addressing the issue of police commissioners, the minister is working at expediting these changes,” said Ngidi. He said he could assure the people of South Africa that the minister’s plans to bring about transformation would ensure that the issue of commissioners acting in the place of suspended officials for too long would soon be a thing of the past. These comments are in light of a Durban High Court decision expected today where suspended KwaZulu-Natal police commissioner Lieutenant-General Mmamonnye Ngobeni would hear whether attempts by acting national commissioner Kgotso Phahlane for leave to appeal her reinstatement is granted. Ngobeni, one of the country’s senior police officials, was accused of misconduct, over her dealings with businessman Thoshan Panday, and suspended in May. It was alleged Panday paid for her husband’s birthday party. She was also accused of interfering with the Hawks investigation on the R60 million police accommodation tender awarded to Panday. In August, Judge Nkosinathi Chili ruled that Phahlane had no authority to take action against Ngobeni, and ordered that the suspension and the board of inquiry into her fitness to hold office be set aside. However, days later Phahlane applied for leave to appeal Chili’s ruling. Should the judge grant the leave to appeal, Ngobeni still wants to return to work pending the outcome of the appeal. The list of suspended top police officials includes the national police commissioner General Riah Phiyega who has been on paid suspension since October last year on allegations of misconduct and a lack of fitness to hold office. Phiyega was appointed soon after her predecessor, Bheki Cele, was declared “unfit” for the position. She was suspended after recommendations of the inquiry set up to investigate the 2012 Marikana massacre. Head of Crime Intelligence Lieutenant-General Richard Mdluli has been on the list for the past four years. Mdluli was removed from his position after he was implicated in an attempted murder and kidnapping case. Former KZN Hawks head Major-General Johan Booysen has also been in and out of court, challenging his suspension. Dr Johan Burger, a senior researcher at the Crime, Justice and Politics Programme at the Institute for Security Studies, said the situation of top officials being suspended was “ridiculous”. He said this created a bad image among police on the ground when their top officials and seniors were suspended for misconduct and criminal activities. “It’s a huge problem for this country, especially those in the public eye in whom people put their trust. “This situation tarnishes the image of the majority of hard-working members of the police force,” said Burger. Daily News