These are the five stories that mattered in 2016, according to Doctors Without Borders (MSF).1. Syria (East Aleppo) 1. Syria (East Aleppo) The situation in East Aleppo, Syria continues to evolve on a daily basis. Until a few days ago when civilians were evacuated on humanitarian grounds, 250 000 people remained trapped in enclaves under siege for months with no access to food, water and healthcare.The situation in East Aleppo, Syria continues to evolve on a daily basis. Until a few days ago when civilians were evacuated on humanitarian grounds, 250 000 people remained trapped in enclaves under siege for months with no access to food, water and healthcare.Waves of deadly bombing and ground offensives by the Syrian government and its allies left the population of east Aleppo in dire and destroyed the health system.For updates please visit: http://bit.ly/2h3weM62. Attacks on medical facilities in contemporary conflicts (Syria, Yemen)Despite the members of the United Nations Security Council signing Resolution 2286 calling for enhanced protections of medical facilities and healthcare workers during conflict, in May 2016 medical facilities continue to be attacked and damaged in fighting. In the process, patients and healthcare workers are killed or injured something that is prohibited under the laws of war contained in International Humanitarian Law.Since the Resolution 2286 came into effect, MSF alone has experienced more horrific attacks: 25 attacks in total (as of 3 October 2016 on the commemoration of the U.S. military s deadly airstrike on MSF s Kunduz Trauma Centre in Afghanistan in October 2015).It is important to note that four of the forces of five permanent members of the UN SC or their allies have been involved in continued attacks on medical facilities.In 2015, 75 medical MSF-run or supported were struck in 106 attacks: Syria, 63, Yemen 5, Ukraine 5, Afghanistan 1, Sudan, 1In 2016, there have already been at least 38 attacks on 21 MSF-run and supported medical structures as follows: In Syria at least 31 attacks on 19 MSF-supported medical facilities and up to 6 in September and Yemen 3 attacks on 2 MSF-supported structures.Each new attack further depletes the number local medical professionals and destruction of medical infrastructure has led to interruption of emergency care, at a time when people need it most.For more information on hospital attacks: http://bit.ly/2dK09Xf3. The Mediterranean Sea Refugee and Migration CrisisThe crisis facing people forced to flee remained in the spotlight this year with hundreds of thousands of people risking their lives to cross the Mediterranean Sea in a bid to seek safety and better lives in Europe. Many are fleeing their home countries as a result of war, violence, persecution and extreme poverty.Since 1 January, at least 4,690 men, women and children have died while attempting to cross this now deadly sea route. That s nearly 1,000 more than in all of 2015 and there are still some weeks left to go before the end of the year.MSF teams have rescued thousands of stranded people at sea with three search and rescue boats since April this year. From the beginning of the operations until 29 November, MSF rescue teams directly rescued 19,708 people from overcrowded boats and assisted a further 7,117 people with safe transfer to Italy and giving them the medical care they needed. At least 1 in 7 of those rescued in Mediterranean waters were helped by MSF teams.To understand this crisis, here are the 10 things you should know:http://bit.ly/2gsq9V44. Nigeria (Borno State)We have constantly updated you on the precarious situation in Borno State in Nigeria. The situation of at least 500,000 people who have been either displaced or cut off in enclaves outside state capital Maiduguri remain in need of food, medical care, drinking water and shelter.The health situation is critical in several cities in Borno State, where malnutrition affects a very large number of children. MSF has repeatedly warned of a large-scale humanitarian disaster in north eastern Nigeria and will continue to highlight the situation faced by thousands in this part of Nigeria.For continuous updates on Borno State please visit: http://bit.ly/2dgZnPi5. Sexual Gender Based Violence (SGBV) In August, MSF released a report outlining startling levels of sexual violence in Rustenburg Municipality, low numbers of women reporting to health care services after rape, and numerous barriers to accessing post-rape care, including low levels of knowledge among women about the benefits of receiving timely medical attention.MSF called on the South African government to urgently roll out a comprehensive and widely accessible medical and psychosocial response that addresses and removes the barriers to accessing a basic package of health care services for victims of sexual violence, both in the Platinum Mining Belt around Rustenburg and across the country.To access the report and for more information please click: http://bit.ly/2aVCYKg*&nbsp;Doctors Without Borders help people worldwide where the need is greatest, delivering emergency medical aid to people affected by conflict, epidemics, disasters, or exclusion from healthcare.