Friday’s rain brought some relief, Garden Route National Park planning manager Len du Plessis said, and after Saturday’s mist lifted, firefighters had an opportunity to attend to hotspot areas close to The Crags, about 20kms outside Plettenberg Bay. The fire, however, is under control. “All available resources, including all 40 fire fighters, will tend to hotspots,” Du Plessis said. Working on Fire (WOF) spokesperson Lauren Howard said: “Thus far 3000-plus hectares of national park land was burnt, with no loss of infrastructure or life reported. "Overall hectares burnt (are still) to be determined”. Howard said the fire started on private land last Monday and spread to the national park. According to Southern Cape Fire Protection Association (SCFPA) incident commander Dirk Smith, about 180 firefighters were on the fire line last week, including three tankers and 20 management staff. The extent of the fire and multiple risks had resulted in the area being declared a fire disaster area in order to access additional resources. The Provincial Disaster Management Centre (PDMC) requested the services of Oryx2 (South African National Defence Force) to join the existing force combating resources. Howard said it may take months to deal with suppression and mop up. With strong winds predicted yesterday, the Incident Management Team (IMT) decided to stay vigilant and not withdraw all the resources. The SCFPA have an official at the incident to support the partners with management of available resources until the fire is declared contained, Howard said. WOF teams who have set up camp at the Crags close to the Joint Operating Centre (JOC) were joined by three teams from the Free State on Saturday. Three other teams from WOF Free State have arrived in George to lend support. “The Vroulijkheid and Bloemfontein teams are conducting mop-up operations within the area to ensure no flare-ups occur. The JOC meets daily with partners to co-ordinate resources,” said Howard. Partners include the Fire Protection Services, SCFPA, SANParks, Bitou Municipality, Local Fire authorities from Askop Crags and Plett South FMUs, Provincial Disaster Management Centre, South African National Defence Force, WOF and volunteers. Cape Times