Johannesburg – South Africans are more interested in Pokémon than US President-elect Donald Trump. The Pokémon GO craze, which took gamers around the world into the streets in a bid to "catch" its cutesy characters, was the most googled topic in South Africa this year. How to download the smartphone virtual reality game as well as what it entails also topped the most searched list. On Wednesday Google announced its annual Year in Search, including the top searches in South Africa. Previously called Google Zeitgeist, the Year in Search provides a snapshot of the trends, people and happenings that captured the nation’s interest during the year. Google also announced the top 10 "what is" and "how to" questions for the year. While last year’s top searches were distinctly local, such as “load shedding” and “xenophobia”, this year’s top searches were more global. “This year’s top searches show South African eyes are turned to the world at large, not just at home,” Google SA said. The other top searched included the Euro 2016 soccer tournament in second place and the Rio Olympic Games in third. Trump, the late kwaito star Mduduzi "Mandoza" Tshabalala and Olympic gold medallist Caster Semenya also made the list. President Jacob Zuma was the most searched-for South African politician and prominent figure, with the Gupta family, Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan and student leader Mcebo Dlamini also featuring in the top 10 list. Racing car driver Gugu Zulu, who died in July attempting to climb Mount Kilimanjaro to raise funds for a girls' charity, was the most searched-for celebrity in South Africa for the year. Kwaito singer Babes Wodumo, rapper Emtee and media personality Gareth Cliff also made the top 10 list. The most googled television shows in South Africa this year were Cash Gang, Uzalo and Muvhango. Idols SA and The Voice South Africa were also listed. The top things that South Africans wanted to know this year were how to download Pokémon GO, how to build a strong business relationship and how to lose belly fat. The top trending "what is" searches included "blesser", "Brexit" and "globalisation". Top trending overall searches: Pokemon Go Euro 2016 Olympic Games Rio 2016 Donald Trump Election Results Mandoza IEC Mall of Africa Caster Semenya US Elections 2016 Top trending South African politicians and prominent figures: Jacob Zuma Public Protector Gupta family Thoko Didiza Mcebo Dlamini Pravin Gordhan Sipho Pityana Brian Molefe Thuli Madonsela Khwesi Top trending South African celebrities: Mandoza Gugu Zulu Emtee Babes Wodumo Gareth Cliff Nasty C Rapulana Seiphemo Nyembezi Kunene Ayanda Mabulu Duke Soul Top trending South African TV shows: Cash Gang Uzalo Muvhango Isibaya Idols SA Beintehaa Bigg Boss 9 Skeem Saam The Voice South Africa Antara Nur Dan Dia Top trending ‘how tos’: How to download pokemon go How to build a strong business relationship How to lose belly fat How to heat up cosmetic oil for production How to remove bookmarks How to make slime How to tie a doek How to deal with poor confidence How to cope with being alone How to prepare battered jackfruit Top trending ‘what is’ searches: What is Pokemon Go? What is Java? What is globalisation? What is a blesser? What is Brexit? What is the weather today? What is meant by restorative justice? What is research? What is a dependent variable? What is biome?