Cape Town - You're young and fancy-free and the long December holidays stretch before you. So, what's a guy or gal to do with the entire country at your feet? Here are some fresh ideas we've rounded up on places to visit, things to do and people to meet this upcoming holiday.  Sensational Hope Summer Concerts @Paul Cluver Ah…Elgin. Evocative landscapes, excellent wine (and food!) and also the location of some incredible summer concerts at wine farm Paul Cluver. Now entering its fourth year, Hope@PaulCluver is “a community-based performance series which uses the arts to increase hope for the eradication of poverty”. From Karen Zoid to The Parlotones, Elvis Blue to Watershed, sit in a forest amphitheatre and watch music, theatre and cinema in the beautiful outdoors as you discover new talents and contribute to the Thembalitsha Foundation, which helps care for those with HIV and TB in the Grabouw community.  Bathurst Ox Braai Held every year in this quirky Eastern Cape farming village, the Bathurst Ox Braai has grown from being a small local fundraiser, to attracting more than 10 000 young people from all over the country. People come in droves to park their cars, eat beef or lamb that is cooked over coals and then party until the early hours. Pack all you need to be comfortable such as warm clothes, a sleeping bag and camping chair (or two), and then be sure to stay put until you've sobered up the next morning.  Franschhoek Cap Classique and Champagne Festival Did someone say the words “champagne” and “festival” in the same sentence? We're in. Held this year on 3rd and 4th December, head to the stylish village of Franschhoek in the Western Cape to sample bubbles from local producers such as Pierre Jourdan, La Motte, Boschendal, Graham Beck, Leopard's Leap and Noble Hill, as well as uber glamourous French labels. There are prizes for the best dressed, decadent food pairings on offer and the chance to mingle with fellow lovers of the good life.  Fact Durban Rocks Fact Durban Rocks was founded by DJ Tira in 2006 in order to promote Afrotainment album launches and the lifestyle that Durbanites love to lead. Although they hold events throughout the year, their upcoming New Year's Party at the Moses Mabhida Stadium looks to be their biggest yet. Watch some of the best local artists on two stages along with 20 000 other people as the concert is screened on SABC1's Come Duze show. Then gasp as the biggest fireworks show in the province takes place. Some medical aids such as Fedhealth give you reduced rates for flights and accommodation as part of their reward programmes - so you can see all that this country has to offer and keep that budget in check. Adapted from a press release for IOL