Johannesburg The Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) has confirmed that it is investigating the cause of the accident that resulted in the death of a pupil who fell from a moving train and died this week in Johannesburg. Thirteen-year-old JC van Loggerenberg died on Wednesday morning after falling from a moving Metrorail train just after it passed Luipaardsvlei Station near Krugersdorp, west of Johannesburg, while on his way to fetch his school report. It was alleged that the carriage was overloaded and that van Loggerenberg was pushed out. He was found on the railway line near the corner of Albertina Sisulu and Chamdor Roads. On Friday, Gauteng Metrorail spokesperson, Lillian Mofokeng, responded by saying that the passenger rail agency was investigating the matter and also expressed condolences to Van Loggerenberg's family. &quot;I can confirm that the fatal incident happened. Investigations are underway to confirm the allegations of the cause of the fatal incident,&quot; Mofokeng said. &quot;On behalf of Metrorail management, I would like to extend heartfelt condolences to the family for their loss. Safety of commuters and employees remains a priority for Metrorail and this incident is regrettable.&quot; The United National Transport Union (Untu) on Friday said its legal team was preparing a court application on behalf of Van Loggerenberg against Prasa. This comes after the full bench of the Constitutional Court ruled in November last year that Prasa had been negligent in failing to ensure that the doors of the train were closed and to hire sufficient personnel to ensure the safety of rail commuters. Steve Harris, general secretary of Untu said Prasa continued to open itself up to massive civil claims by not adhering to a Constitutional Court judgement that the embattled passenger railway operator had a constitutional obligation to protect passengers from harm. &quot;It is shocking, tragic and unacceptable that innocent passengers continue to lose their lives on our railway lines a year after the Constitutional Court ruled in a ground-breaking case that safeguarding the physical well-being of passengers was a central obligation of public carriers, including Prasa,&quot; Harris said. &quot;An innocent 13-year-old boy who lost his life this week after falling from a moving train, would have lived if Prasa adhered to its legal duty to ensure that the doors were closed while the train was in motion.&quot; African News Agency