Durban - Two Durban families have reconciled after a row over a parking bay left two men dead and a neighbour facing murder charges. Representatives of both families shook hands after the case was dismissed in the Durban Regional Court on Friday. Bonginkosi Khanyile walked out a free man after the magistrate gave a scathing critique of the State’s investigation. Khanyile owns a holiday flat in Kingsford on Margaret Mncadi Avenue (Victoria Embankment), meaning both families could still meet one another in the building should Khanyile stay there on holidays. The tragedy occurred in August last year, when Khanyile, 58, a driving school owner, and brothers Mohamed Vawda, 25, and Ahmed Gora Vawda, 31, had a dispute over parking bays in the building. Khanyile was charged with two counts of murder and one of extortion. It was alleged that Khanyile had extorted R350 from Ayesha Vawda, a sister of the dead men, a month before the shooting, and had threatened her life because of a parking dispute. Khanyile’s advocate, Gideon Scheltema SC, read a statement in court  earlier this year, stating that Khanyile had felt threatened by the men and shot at them in self-defence. Khanyile said he had been approached by one of the brothers over the parking issue. The brother became enraged and threatened to kill Khanyile. A security guard tried to intervene, but both brothers assaulted Khanyile. Khanyile said his glasses were broken and he was kicked. When he heard one of the men ask for a firearm, he believed they were going to kill him. Khanyile then used his firearm and fired at the brothers. Khanyile handed himself over to the security guard who locked him in a room until the police arrived. On Friday, while Khanyile sat anxiously in the dock, neatly dressed in a black suit, his family sat pensively waiting for the announcement. When he walked out of court a free man, they encircled him, protecting him from the media. The family said he was not ready for photographs or to comment. He appeared overwhelmed by the judgment. Vawda’s family were disappointed. Family spokesman Mahomed Mansoor, the brothers’ uncle, said it was not surprising, after listening to the proceedings, that Khanyile was acquitted. “There was a serious indictment on the State, for example, the lack of resources, or not having experienced personnel. However, what has been done cannot be undone and we have to move on because we cannot get the two boys back,” he said. He said the wives of the two brothers were still traumatised. “One of them still has sleepless nights. They’ve been through a lot and now we all just want to move on. We may still pass each other in the lobby or in the lift, so we don’t want any issues. It was a tragedy but we must move on,” said Mansoor. Magistrate Sharon Marks lambasted the shoddy work by the State’s investigative team when she acquitted Khanyile at the close of the State’s case. Khanyile’s legal team applied for the discharge on fair trial rights, because there was a “lack of an objective, fair and constitutional investigation in the matter”. Marks said the accused’s rights had been breached. “Vital evidence that should have been safeguarded went missing. The clothing of the deceased that was examined by ballistics experts could not be produced in court, CCTV footage was not gathered, notwithstanding that the machine was capable of keeping footage for 30 days. The witness statement was contradictory. The crime scene had been compromised, which is clear from photographs when read in conjunction with witness reports,” she said. One of the State experts during the trial was SAPS ballistics expert Captain Chris Mangena, who also testified at the Oscar Pistorius trial. Khanyile’s legal counsel, Jacques Botha, said outside court that Khanyile’s rights to a fair trial were severely infringed because the crime scene evidence was tampered with, resulting in no need for his client to be placed on defence. “There was no evidence that we could work with. The police compromised the crime scene, evidence went missing. They in effect took away our right to defend and cross-examine. The occurrence book which detailed the guard’s account of the incident went missing. Bodies were turned over when they should not have been. There were several other critical issues in their investigation that should not have happened. “We couldn’t challenge any evidence the State put forward because every piece of evidence had been tampered with. It’s a severe indictment of the police.” Despite the magistrate ordering that Khanyile’s firearm be returned to him, the police had not done so after the court proceedings. Independent on Saturday