Johannesburg - What comes to mind when you hear Movie Music Festival? A musical renditions of movie sound titles right? Well not at this festival. The Movie Music Festival brought to you by Vertex Events in partnership with Channel O promises to expose attendees to the story behind the song and the life of artists. The first of its kind production will be hosted this coming Saturday at the Fitzgerald Square in Newtown, with local performances from Nasty C, Riky Rick, Black Coffee, AKA, Cassper Nyovest, Babes Wodumo and Black Motion among 21 more acts for an unforgettable music experience. Thato Segaole, the executive director of Vertex Events believe that their concept is mind blowing. “We just felt that we could put together a production that is world class, which can deliver on world class level but for South African artists. “It’s not going to be a normal performance of here’s a mic, get on stage, perform and get off. We have said ‘give us a story on stage (sic). Perform, tell something about yourself, your music, your song and make us understand what you meant by it’,” he comments. The festival will incorporate choreography, visuals and costume changes; bringing the music elements to life. The aim is to celebrate and demonstrate South African artists through the sharing of their musical achievements and creative accomplishments to create a lifelong appreciation of local music with the same international presentation standard. All the dancing is choreographed by Sne Mbatha, a dancer who has composed dance routines for local stages such as the MTV Base Awards and the SAMA, and has featured internationally on musician Drake’s music video. The movie will be told on stage during performance, and viewers will be treated to surprises here and there. “We really just want to showcase real life South African stories without compromising what they really want to say,” adds Segaole. Popular Mabala Noise Entertainment rapper Nasty C agreed to to the challenge of forming part of the event as this is something new and exciting to him. He promises fans to tell a ‘Nasty C’ story through the Bad Hair album. Gates open from 12h00 till 02h00. IOL