Johannesburg - The Limpopo Health Department on Friday confirmed that it obtained an interdict preventing self-professed prophet (Detective) Lethebo Rabalago from the Mount Zion General Assembly from spraying Doom at his congregants. We want him to stop spraying his congregants with insecticide so we approached the court last Friday. He has been given time to come forward before the court order is made permanent. For now, he is not allowed to spray his congregants with insecticide, spokesperson Derrick Kganyago said. This practise is worrisome to us because insecticide is not for human consumption. We urge congregants to make informed decisions because the content of Doom is meant to kill. People must make informed decisions knowing that actions can harm their lives.Rabalago from the Mount Zion General Assembly in Limpopo shot to infamy in November, after pictures of him spraying his congregation with Doom ostensibly to heal them of illnesses went viral on social media.Kganyago said that Rabalago was ordered to appear in court in January to make representations and give reasons the interdict should not be made final. The sad part is that the effects of Doom on your health can manifest at a later stage. You might feel fine now, but you could get sick at a later stage, he said. We want to urge people to be cautious because if they continue like that most of them might end up in hospital. Rabalago has been ordered to appear in court next month, to provide reasons the interdict should not be made final.On November 22, Tiger Brands the makers of the insecticide Doom warned Rabalago against spraying the insect killer on his followers.Tiger Brands in a statement said it was aware of the recent actions which have been circulating on social media by a person referring to himself as Prophet (Detective) Lethebo is seen in pictures spraying Doom into people s faces as part of faith worship. We find this practice alarming and extremely concerning, and want to make very clear that it is unsafe to spray any Doom or any aerosol onto people s faces, said Tiger Brands said at the time.Lethabo insisted that he was acting according to his faith which could see harmful substances used to cure ailments.However, Tiger Brands said: Doom has been formulated to kill specific insects, which are detailed on the cans, and the packaging has very clear warnings which must be adhered to. Tiger Brands said using Doom for purposes other than what it is intended for poses risks and is therefore dangerous they are in the process of contacting the Prophet to ask him to refrain from such practice.The Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities said it could not act against the so-called prophet unless the people he sprayed with the insecticide were willing to lay a complaint.African News Agency