First Test, Day 4, Stumps Sri Lanka: 205 and 240/5 (Mendis 58, Mathews 58*, Maharaj 2/84) South Africa: 286 and 406/6 dec (Cook 117, de Kock 69, du Plessis 67*)  Port Elizabeth - “We'll take it to the last session if we have to”. That was Keshav Maharaj’s sentiments as South Africa go in search of five wickets on the final day to close out the series opener.  The general consensus in the morning was that the Proteas would look to quickly end their playing affairs here at St George’s Park and head to Cape Town for the New Year Test with an extra day to rest up.  But that scenario has now gone out of the window and both teams will return on Friday with a clear idea of what needs to be done. For South Africa, it’s to find five magical balls to dismiss the remaining batsmen, while the Sri Lankans face a 90-over mental examination. Should they pass that, which remains highly unlikely, they should indeed get the 248 runs that would take them to the most improbable of victories.  The visitors have though already outdone themselves. Dimuth Karunaratne (43) and Kaushal Silva’s (48) opening partnership which yielded 83 runs was easily the highest ever in South African conditions. And they are only 33 runs shy of the highest fourth innings total achieved by any team here at South Africa’s oldest Test venue.  However, they will be kicking themselves for allowing South Africa to remain in the driving seat through some injudicious strokeplay and running between the wickets.  Being set a world record target of 488 is a mountainous task at the best of times and it surely does not need batsmen to run themselves out like Karunaratne did when well set. Kusal Mendis (58) and Dinesh Chandimal should shoulder plenty of the blame too for their manner in which they were dismissed with Chandimal in particular the guilty culprit. Sri Lanka’s second most senior batsmen tamely chipped Keshav Maharaj straight to Kagiso Rabada at mid-on with only a few overs remaining before stumps were drawn.  It was, though, just reward for Maharaj who toiled – or as he said “invested” for long periods of the day on a pitch that offered precious little in terms of spin or bounce for the left-arm spinner. Maharaj should have dismissed Chandimal earlier already though, but Stephen Cook dropped a sitter at mid-on.  "It happens to everyone. There was no intention of dropping a catch and Cookie has been fielding well, but fortunately KG took the next one, so we were happy about it,” Maharaj said philosophically.  Maharaj’s role will be pivotal on the final day. Although South Africa have the benefit of a new ball that is only three overs old and will hope that Vernon Philander and Kyle Abbott can repeat their second day demolition job of the Sri Lankan lower order once again, the visiting captain Angelo Mathews (58 not out) is still out there fighting with every inch of his ability to keep his team afloat.  Mathews has an enviable fourth innings record with the willow. He averages 69.75 – in comparison to his overall career average of 47.16 – and indeed remains the glue that holds his side together.  His dismissal could have a domino effect though, but there’s no doubt Maharaj has been cast into a frontline role after being primarily the support act in his first two-and-a-half Test matches thus far and will look to the conditions to assist in him achieving his and the Proteas’ ultimate goal.  “We spoke about it earlier. It’s not going to be an easy task firstly. The wicket is playing a lot better. We decided to invest, most people would call it toil, and I just want to stick to my basics and hit my lengths and hopefully the pitch can assist me from there,” Maharaj said.  “It is nice to bowl with the wind, obviously blowing from left to right, as a left-arm spinner it gets the ball to drift. It is not the easiest wind to control in terms of bowling, but sometimes it’s nice to have when the ball is not spinning much so you have the drift to play with.” Independent Media