Durban - Chatting on a cellphone while driving at 120km/h, with no seat belts on driver or passengers, including children - that s a common sight on South African roads and AA (Automobile Association of South Africa) spokesman Layton Beard has urged all drivers to obey the rules of the road as the holiday season gets under way. While the government and authorities have a huge role to play in reducing road fatalities and there is no doubt that more consequences are needed, motorists themselves have incredibly bad attitudes, said Beard, citing traffic offences such as overtaking on a blind rise, ignoring speed limits, driving in the emergency lane denoted by a yellow line, not wearing seat belts and poor condition of the car or tyres. He confirmed RTMC (Road Traffic Management Corporation) statistics showing that nearly 13 000 people were killed on the country's national roads between January and December last year, of which 1 449 were in the December rush period.Second only to Gauteng, which had 2 472 fatalities, KwaZulu-Natal accounted for 2 411 fatalities, of which 1 142 were pedestrians - the highest number of pedestrian fatalities in the country. More than 35 percent of all the fatalities were pedestrians, which is a huge figure. The causes behind this include badly lit roads, or roads with no lights at all, pedestrians walking home after being in a pub or shebeen and pedestrians wearing dark-coloured clothes, said Beard. Most fatal crashes happened over the weekend, with 24 percent on a Saturday night. He added that distracted driving was a major cause for accidents. This included drivers talking or typing on cellphones. It only takes a moment of glancing down at a screen and next minute you are in a collision with five other vehicles, or have driven into the back of a truck, warned Beard. When planning holiday journeys, tips from the AA include ensuring your car is in tip-top condition, as well as planning your route, including stops. It is recommended to make provision to stop every 200km or every two hours to rest, refuel and refresh. Try to avoid rush days when traffic is at its heaviest and do the same for the return journey. Meanwhile, SAPS KZN Media spokeswoman Colonel Thembeka Mbhele also underlined the need to ensure your vehicle is in good shape.With regard to safety, she advised people to always lock your vehicle doors and keep the windows closed. Do not leave your vehicle unlocked, even if you are away for a minute .ER24 spokeswoman Chitra Bodasing Harduth recommended holidaymakers prepare a travel first aid kit, but said motorists should also prepare how to react should they be involved in an accident. You could be involved in a collision at any time and it is best to know what you should or should not be doing, said Harduth, warning that drivers should never flee the scene. If possible, she said, get the vehicle to a safe area on the side of the road to avoid a secondary accident, or other possible incidents at the accident scene. Other tips:*Give your name and address, the name and address of the owner of the vehicle, the registration number and your driver s licence details where required to do so. Report the incident at a police station within 24 hours.*While on the scene of a collision, try to stay calm. Assess the situation to determine the best way to handle it. Make use of hazard lights and an emergency triangle to alert other motorists. Secondary collisions occur, so you should ensure scene safety. Assess traffic flow and determine if it poses a danger to anyone, including those involved in the collision or others around.*Ascertain the nature or extent of the incident. Is everyone travelling in your vehicle accounted for? (People could have been ejected.) Are people travelling in the vehicle you were in injured? Are people in other vehicles injured? Are people trapped? Is there a fire? Are patients lying on the road?*Call emergency services or instruct someone to do so immediately. You should always have important contact details, such as emergency services and the SAPS, stored on your phone.*Where first aid is needed, start immediately if you are able to do so. *If a injured person is bleeding heavily, use gauze or sterile dressings from the first aid kit, a towel, T-shirt or blanket, for example, to apply direct pressure to the wound. Maintain that pressure until emergency services arrive. *Never move an injured person unless for their own safety (for example, if the vehicle is on fire or if there are other dangers). Remember moving a person could make their condition worse.*If there is a fire, use a fire extinguisher. You should always carry one in your vehicle and know how to use it.*Remember, it is important to assist a patient but you should also ensure your safety. You are no use to anyone if you are injured while trying to help others. Also remember, never touch a person s blood or try to assist them without proper protection, such as gloves.*Remember to guard children or ensure that they are safe or supervised at an accident scene.First-aid kit essentialsTweezersScissorsSafety pinsFirst Aid dressings2 or 3 rolls of bandagesEye padTriangular bandageGauze swabsPlastersAntiseptic creamBurn dressingAntiseptic wound cleanerLatex gloves (If you are allergic to Latex, use non-Latex gloves)CPR mouthpiecePersonal medicationSunscreenPersonal information More items can be added to this list. You should also pack your personal medication in and label it as such. (ER24)Independent on Saturday