Kimberley - A 27-year-old woman is under police guard in hospital after she allegedly poured petrol over a house in Gong Gong and set it alight while her boyfriend and a four-year-old boy were trapped inside.Victor Louw, 27, and the young boy, who was visiting them at the time of incident, were admitted to the Kimberley Hospital but both died on Christmas Eve after succumbing to serious burn injuries.The suspect, as well as her one-year-old child, also sustained burn wounds when she pulled the toddler out of the burning house.Police spokesperson, Captain Sergio Kock, said the suspect was staying with her boyfriend, his grandmother and their one-year-old son at the time of the incident. On December 23, a female visitor and her four-year-old son were visiting the family. The 27-year-old suspect allegedly set the house on fire at 11am. All the occupants managed to escaped and were transported to hospital for medical treatment. The boyfriend and the young boy, however, succumbed to their injuries and died the following day in hospital. The motive behind the incident is being investigated. A 27-year-old female was arrested and is currently in hospital, under police guard, after she sustained burns to her legs. Kock said the police were investigating charges of murder, attempted murder and arson.Community members in Gong Gong said they struggled for five hours to put out the fire because water in the remote area is scarce.One resident, Leander Heynes, stated that they had to use buckets of water to soothe the raging flames. We called the fire brigade but they never came and we had to put out the fire ourselves. According to her, Louw was placed on life support machines until he died on Saturday. The four-year-old child s mother had to be admitted to hospital because she was in a state of shock. The two will be buried this weekend. Lena Louw, 61, said she has been left destitute because the couple was living in her house and she lost everything in the fire. It appears as if this was a premeditated act because my son s girlfriend threatened to burn down my house the previous night. My house was built in 2015 and all my new furniture has been destroyed. She added that her son had just returned from the shops after his girlfriend sent him to buy some groceries. She scolded him for spending time with his friends and for drinking alcohol. They were arguing all night and I do not think that my son took her threats seriously. If she was angry with my son and did not love him, why did she have to punish me as well, she asked.According to her a neighbour saved her son s life on December 23 by throwing a bucket of water over his burning body and dragged him out of the burning house. Victor sustained severe burn wounds on his back. She did not know why the couple were fighting but indicated that they had experienced relationship problems for some time. She told him that she was wasting her time and that she was forced into the relationship against her will after she fell pregnant with his child. Anyone with information regarding the incident is requested to contact Detective Warrant Officer Ralda Breedt on 082 857 6198.Diamond Fields Advertiser