Finding the coolest gift for children can be a tricky task due to the endless variety of toys on offer. The list below has been especially created to make finding the perfect toy for the kids in your life. LEARNING & EDUCATIONAL TOYS If your kid is a keen baker and enjoys spending time with you in the kitchen, then the Safeway tiered cake maker is the ideal gift for them. The cake maker bakes a variety of 3 different sized mini cakes at once, so they can have the pleasure of creating their own 12cm high tiered masterpiece - with adult supervision of course. If that doesn't convince you that this gift is worth every penny, then maybe this will; it works with a range of batters, bakes cake pieces in just 6 minutes and the non-stick cooking plates ensure fuss-free cake removal and easy cleaning. The Abrick Building Block set is the perfect gift for the kid with an inquisitive, active mind. It comes with interlocking blocks that allows kids to create unlimited designs. Perfect for little hands, it comes with a simple zip-up bag for easy storage. 1. Hand-eye coordination develops and improves the more the child plays with the blocks. 2. Kids begin to think logically when playing with building blocks as they are required to arrange the blocks accordingly. 3. Creativity is stimulated as they learn how to create different structures using the building blocks. 4. Building blocks allow children to share and is a great way to encourage social interaction. READ: Why is it so expensive to adopt a child? If your toddler enjoys colouring, painting or drawing and could be the next Pablo Picasso in the making, then the Rainbow Rocks Eco Crayons could be the perfect gift. The crayons are handmade locally with a 100% vegetable base and tons of love. They are scented with lavender oil, and help to keep your child calm and focussed as they colour. Brightly coloured with food grade pigments, they are completely non-toxic and biodegradable. The shape allows easy grip for tiny hands, strong and long lasting, they are sure to provide hours of enjoyment for little ones. These adorable Robot Softies will not only snuggle their way into your heart but will make the perfect snuggle friend for your child as well. They are handmade in Sedgefield and of superior quality - making them a gorgeous gift for toddlers as well as some grown-ups!  Safeway Tiered Cake Maker R 299.00, Abrick Building Blocks 50 piece R 179.95 available at Clicks, Soy Wax Crayons R90.00, Robot Soft Toy R250.00 available at Tidy & Co. PICTURE: Nadine Willis PRETTY IN PINK Barbie Mix 'N Colour allows girls to customise hair colour for Barbie using the colours included in the set. The set includes: Barbie doll dressed in fashion and heels, 36 colour sheets (6 large sheets - pink, purple, yellow, blue, brown, black), 1 palette, 1 brush/spoon tool, 1 hair comb, 3 hair elastics. Get ready to rock! In this upbeat musical, Barbie stars as Princess Courtney, a modern princess whose world is turned upside down when she switches places with Erika, a famous rock star. Two very different worlds collide when a mix-up sends Princess Courtney to Camp Pop and Erika, to Camp Royalty. If your kid is a Barbie fan then this musical DVD will definitely put a smile on your little ones face. READ: 6 ways to debunk the myth of the straight-A student Barbie offers a new twist on hair! If your child loves all things pretty and pink, glitz and glamour then Barbie Hair Princess is the way to go. With extra-long locks and an easy to use tool to twist and style her hair, Barbie is ready for a new fabulous look created by your little one. Barbie's long, pink and purple streaked hair includes four pieces with colourful beads attached. Snap the beads into the hair tool, press the button for instant results. If your kid is familiar with the movie Barbie Star Light Adventure, then Galaxy Pets would be the perfect gift to bring home to them. Choose from a galactic cat, galactic dog or galactic space creature. Each figure features colourful details and a space accessory that is non-removable, like space helmets for the cat and dog and a blue planet-like ring for the galaxy creature. Make learning about personal hygiene fun and interactive with the Barbie toothbrush! Kids from different ages have different oral care needs. The Colgate Smiles toothbrush is uniquely designed to cater for the dental needs of children between the ages of 2-5 who have all their front baby teeth developed. It's never too early to have a healthy looking smile.  Barbie Mix 'N Colour 36 Pieces R 399.99 available at Makro, Barbie in Rock 'N Royals Musical DVD R59.00 at Makro, DKB62 Feature Hair Princess R 399.99 available at Game Stores, Star Light Fantasy Creature R 79.99 available at Game Stores, Colgate Smiles Barbie Toothbrushes R24.99 available at Pick n Pay Stores. PICTURE: Nadine Willis