Pretoria Despite repeatedly pledging his intention to fire Tshwane Metro Police Department chief Steve Ngobeni during the electoral campaign period, Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga revealed on Monday that his plans may not see the light of day. &quot;When we got here, we then found out that the chief of the metro police was employed on a permanent basis. He is not employed on contract. So we have [only] reviewed his terms of employment to ensure that they are in line with what we want to do,&quot; Msimanga told reporters in Pretoria at an event marking his 100 days in office. &quot;By the way, he is the only one in the whole country that we found to be employed on a permanent basis. Even in the world. We are putting performance contracts for all officials and he will also have one. We are looking at changing a number of things.&quot; During his extensive election campaign ahead of the August 3 local government elections, Msimanga repeatedly told supporters that Ngobeni would lose his job and be replaced by a career policeman. Ngobeni was permanently appointed to the job in 2012 after having occupied the post in an acting basis. Still on policing matters in the capital city, Msimanga said he had made efforts to ensure that the TMPD was well equipped to counter the scourge of crime. &quot;There was a time when only 38 vehicles of the metro police were working out of the more than 300 vehicles. We have found them. We are now in the process of fixing those that have been broken. We have now replenished some of the fleet. More vehicles have been procured,&quot; said Msimanga. He said members of the TMPD would now be trained to enforce by-laws wholly, not only focusing on traffic infringements. &quot;This will see more of them doing by-law enforcement in the CBD to ensure that those buildings that are dilapidated, we start issuing spot fines. We will be writing reports that will go to the property owners to say you have so much time and if you are not going to fix your facility, the city will either fix it and charge you or we take legal action against you. We need our metro police to be playing that role,&quot; said Msimanga. The mayor said he would be launching several forensic investigations, including into the controversial Dinokeng Tribe One debacle. &quot;I will also be requesting an investigation into the ghost employees in the city to address how much money is being lost to these ghost employees that are unduly drawing money from he city. This is something that has adversely affected departments like the national department of basic education,&quot; he said.Punted as Africa's biggest music festival, the Dinokeng Tribe One festival suffered a stillbirth in September 2014 leaving the organisers and City of Tshwane blaming each other for the ill-fated mission. The infrastructure development of the venue reportedly came at a cost of about R40 million to ratepayers. Tshwane had also reportedly paid the organisers an additional R25m to host the event which was scheduled to be headlined by international megastar Nicki Minaj. African News Agency