Johannesburg - Roger De Sa is flattered by all the reports linking him to some top jobs, but says there’s not been any offers for any of those. “It is obviously nice to hear that I am being considered for a Bafana Bafana job or that Safa are keen on my services,” De Sa said from his home in Cape Town on Wednesday. “But I’ve just been reading about it like anyone else. There has not been any official approach. The other day I even read somewhere that I’d said I was keen on the Bafana job but I’d not spoken to anyone about it. I suppose they know that every coach would like to coach the national team.” Not even the latest speculation that he could be joining Kaizer Chiefs as part of their technical team has any truth to it, De Sa said. “The Chiefs story,” De Sa laughed “My wife read it to me this morning. But to be honest with you there has not been any direct approach. I’ve not spoken to anyone at Chiefs about it.” The only club that De Sa has been in contact with are Maritzburg United. “They are serious and have been very aggressive,” explained the man whose last job was with Ajax Cape Town who had not won a single match this season when he was replaced by Stanley Menzo. “And they’ve gone about it via the right channels. I’ve had meetings with Farook (Kadodia, the club chairman) and we’ve had discussions. I’ve made him aware that I needed the break and asked him to give me some space and that we should talk again in January.” Yet with stand in coach Fadlu Davids doing some brilliant work to see the Team of Choice moving up the table and sitting pretty in eighth spot following a four-match unbeaten run this month. “Of course the Maritzburg offer might no longer be there come January, but like I said to Farook, I really needed the break – my first proper holiday in 32 years. And I am not even watching the soccer channels. I think I deserved it and hopefully I will return fresh and ready to add another chapter to this (career).” While he left Ajax due to a bad run of form, De Sa did win the Urban Warriors the MTN8 title having joined them after an impressive spell at Orlando Pirates that took the Buccaneers to the Caf Champions League final. That plus the fact that he has also worked as a member of Bafana’s technical team in the past gave rise to his name being linked to the national coaching job which is vacant following the dismissal of Shakes Mashaba. Safa have said that with Bafana currently involved in the Caf World Cup qualifiers, they need Mashaba’s replacement to be someone in tune with the continental game. While De Sa, a former Bafana player himself, fits the billing the man himself is yet to be approached, although he will definitely answer the call should it come. “Wouldn’t you be flattered if you heard that Time magazine wanted you, even if you knew it wasn’t true? That’s where I am at right now, flattered. But no one has called, not even Chiefs.” Independent Media