Sexual and gender divergent South Africans are just as vulnerable to HIV and Aids as any other segment and need protection of the law, writes Geoffrey Ogwaro. South Africa is a country that is so diverse and heterogeneous that the term “rainbow nation” was coined by Nelson Mandela to describe its characteristics under the new democratic dispensation. The term does not only apply to the diverse skin shades of people, but extends to the diverse cultures, nationalities, religious backgrounds, political affiliations, as well as sexual orientations and gender identities and expressions of South Africans and non-South African fellow inhabitants. Sexual and gender divergent people are a key part of the South African population. They include lesbians, gay men and boys; bisexual women and men, boys and girls; transgender, gender-neutral and gender-fluid women and men, boys and girls; intersex women and men, boys and girls; questioning men and women, boys and girls; asexual men and boys, and women and girls. South Africa has a sizeable number of people of a different sexual orientation and gender identity other than the mainstream population that subscribes to heterosexuality and cisgender (gender-normative) identities. A groundbreaking survey by The Other Foundation reveals that just over half a million South Africans identify as homosexual, bisexual or gender non-conforming in some way, and just over 3.4 million openly express themselves in a non-gender conforming manner through dress and mannerism.  Vulnerable Sexual and gender divergent South Africans are just as vulnerable to HIV and Aids as any other segment of the population. In fact, they form part of what is known as “key populations”. Key populations are groups that experience both increased impact of HIV and Aids and decreased access to health services. They include groups that have been criminalised or marginalised. Key population groups such as lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgender people are more often more vulnerable to HIV and Aids because of unique factors that affect each sub-group differently. Lesbian women and girls and transgender men (persons who identify as men despite their “given sex” having been female at birth), often undergo the physical trauma of “corrective rape”, a phenomenon that has become so akin to South Africa that it dominates many reports on violence against women. Corrective rape is a phenomenon that describes the rape of persons to “cure” them of homosexuality or to emasculate them. It is an act that opens up many lesbian and non-gender conforming persons to the high risk of HIV contraction because in most cases protection may not be used by the rapist or rapists (some corrective rapes are gang rapes). Gay men and men who have sex with men (MSM) are a high-risk key population group because of the higher risks of transmission associated with anal sex, especially where the risk of tear is high. This can be a big problem where protection is not emphasised and condoms and lubricants are not provided. My experience of sex shops that I have visited in Pretoria reveals that, while condoms are provided for free, water-based lubricants are not. Chances are that where lubricants are not used during sex, sexual partners will resort to saliva or “dry” sex. This can lead to condom tear and a greater risk of contracting HIV. Transgender folk are generally at risk because, while many HIV and Aids interventions target straight persons and key populations such as men who have sex with men, almost none specifically consider transgender people. There is no data that exclusively exists for transgender people. Transgender women are usually lumped with men who have sex with men. During the 2016 Aids conference in Durban, the president of the International Aids Society and Co-chair of Aids 2016 revealed that transgender people were 50 times more likely to acquire HIV than any other adults because of risk and vulnerability factors such as heightened stigma and discrimination because of being transgender, poverty and non-specified interventions. Burdened According to him, transgender persons are the most heavily burdened of all the key populations. Bisexual men and women are also a particularly marginalised sub-group of the key populations. Bisexual persons are accused of living the “down low” (secretive) sex life that is claimed contributes to a high risk of HIV infection among their heterosexual partners, and therefore among themselves. This has not been proved by scientific research. These kinds of assumptions can eventually lead to social stigma and blame appropriation, and a poor health seeking behaviour among such groups, especially if they feel their lifestyle is going to be under scrutiny by biased healthcare personnel. Bisexuality is generally frowned upon in the lesbian and gay community where it is believed by many, that bisexuals want to have their cake and eat it too. Most key population definitions do not list bisexuals as part of key populations but rather include men who have sex with men, and lately some have started listing transgender populations. The Constitution lists health as one of the rights protected in the Bill of Rights where it says “everyone has the right to have access to healthcare services, including reproductive health care”. Structural, social, epidemiological, economic and legal disparities that fuel the discriminatory regime of HIV and Aids care and vulnerability for all key populations, including those not officially recognised and listed, need to be studied with the aim of levelling the plane for all vulnerable groups. * Ogwaro is project co-ordinator: LGBTI Rights in Africa at the Centre for Human Rights, University of Pretoria. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Daily News