The city was in chaos. People were drinking in the streets. Women were urinating on the pavement. Fights in the streets. Even the homeless were under attack in the Company s Garden.Youngsters were walking around looking for someone to rob. I am horrified. It seems like some people came to town to cause havoc and then returned to where they came from. Long Street was like a haven for thieves. The City of Cape Town spends about R1.5 million on this event. I would love to know what the costs of cleaning up is going to be. There is something very wrong with some of us. It seems like we think we have the right to take what is not ours. We think we have the right to rape in case you say no to sex. We think we have the right to hurt the weak and vulnerable. We think we have the right to lie, disrespect whomever, whenever we want. And we turn a blind eye to this.I remember a time when being a teacher or nurse was a noble career. Today, nurses are severely over-worked and underpaid and the victims of patients violent emotions. Our teachers enter school grounds that resemble war zones. I remember a time where young mothers-to-be carried their unborn child with a glowing face and the dad-to-be beaming with pride next to her. Today we see abortion ads stuck to almost every wall, bus and train. I remember when churches stood up against social injustice. Today a pastor sprays his congregation with Doom. I remember a time when we had respect for women and the elderly. Today we don t even get up in the train to offer them a seat. I remember when politicians were humble servants of the people. Today they are clad in scandals, corruption and some publicly declare the homeless a nuisance, retarded and undesirable. I remember a time when we took care of the poor, the widows, the single mothers. Today we rob pensioners of their pensions. I remember when we honoured our parents. Today they are too scared to have us around the house.Now let me introduce you to grace. The sun shines over the good and the bad. It rains on the good and bad. As human beings we have the choice: to embrace life with compassion, love and inspiration, or to hurt, loot and destroy. Our nation s nerves have been tested this year. We all deal with stress in different ways. We all try and cope the best we can. The young woman you disrespect in the street could have been your sister. The elderly lady whose bag you stole could have been your grandma. Don t vent your anger and frustration at the wrong person.* Danny s Diary is published every Tuesday in the Cape Argus.Cape Argus