London – Debbie Reynold's son Todd Fisher has opened up about his sister Carrie's daughter Billie Lourd saying he "can't imagine" what it must be like for her to lose both her mother and her grandmother in a short space of time.  "Carrie's daughter is 24 years old. To have to lose the girls, it's just horrible. She's got their genes but you can't even imagine. I can't imagine being 24 and having to do this and I'm 59." Carrie passed away on Tuesday after she became ill whilst travelling from London to Los Angeles on Friday. Her mother Debbie Reynolds died on Wednesday aged 84. Reynolds passed away late on Wednesday after being rushed to hospital for possibly suffering a stroke, Todd confirmed. Todd, 58, told E! News: "She went to be with Carrie. In fact, those were the last words that she spoke this morning. "More specifically, she said that she really, she was under a lot of stress. "She held it together beautifully, obviously, for the last couple of days but she was under a lot of emotion and stress from the loss [of Carrie] and it's pretty much what triggered this event." Debbie was at her son's Beverly Hills home to discuss funeral plans for the 'Star Wars' actress' when she suffered a medical emergency and the paramedics were called, TMZ reports. It comes after Debbie – who had Carrie with her ex-husband Eddie Fisher – posted a heartfelt message to her late daughter on social media. She wrote on her Facebook account: "Thank you to everyone who has embraced the gifts and talents of my beloved and amazing daughter. I am grateful for your thoughts and prayers that are now guiding her to her next stop. Love Carries Mother (sic)"    At the time of writing, no other details about Debbie's death are known. Meanwhile, Dame Joan Collins has led tributes to Reynolds.  Joan – who starred with Debbie on the 2001 comedy movie 'These Old Broads' – has dubbed the late star as a "wonderfully warm friend". Taking to Twitter, the 83-year-old actress wrote: "Truly heartbroken to hear @DebbieReynolds1 has died. She was a wonderfully warm friend and colleague. Praying for Todd (Fisher, her son) & Billie (Lourd, Carrie's daughter). #RIPDebbie (sic)" Joan's message comes as one of many from the world of showbiz, as tributes flood in since the announcement of Debbie's untimely passing. William Shatner wrote on Twitter: "Debbie Reynolds was one of the last of Hollywood Royalty. It breaks my heart that she is gone. I'd hoped that my grieving was done for 2016." Whilst Steven Fry added: "Deepest sympathy to Billie, Todd & all the family at this new blow. Time to watch 'Postcards From The Edge' & 'Singin' in the Rain' & remember (sic)" Bette Midler shared: "#DebbieReynolds has just died. This is too hard to comprehend. Beautiful, talented, devoted to her craft, she follows Carrie, dead days ago. (sic)" Meanwhile Mark Hamill – who previously shared a tribute to his 'Star Wars' co-star Carrie – posted a picture of a man kicking the six off of the year 2016.    The actor – who famously played Luke Skywalker alongside Carrie's Princess Leia -simply captioned the photo: "#CruelCruelYear (sic)" And younger stars such as Ariana Grande and Miley Cyrus also took to social media to share their thoughts on the late star, with the 'Dangerous Woman' hitmaker reaching out to offer support for Billie. The 23-year-old singer wrote on Twitter: "i love you billie. so so much. rest in peace, debbie reynolds. (sic)" Whilst Miley shared on Instagram alongside a picture of Debbie: "wow...... this sad news makes me wanna hug my mama and never let go...... (sic)" Bang Showbiz