Not so for goalkeeper Reyaad Pieterse, who has had to bide his time to dust off his gloves for action at Kaizer Chiefs as an understudy to Itumeleng Khune and is now doing the same thing at his new club, SuperSport United. “I always give myself as long as it takes, especially when a guy that’s playing ahead of me is doing well,” says Pieterse, who had a busy Saturday night at the Peter Mokaba Stadium with Matsatsantsa going down 2-1 to Cape Town City in the Telkom Knockout final. “When it comes to these kinds of things, you just have to be patient and wait your turn and that is the beauty of being a goalkeeper  you wait your turn and work hard.” The general belief is that Pieterse left Chiefs at the end of last season to come out of Khune’s shadow and fulfil his true potential. At Amakhosi, the Nike Football Academy graduate managed just over 30 matches in three years, notching up the appearances mostly when Khune was injured. His arrival at SuperSport certainly pushed first choice keeper Ronwen Williams to his best again and back into the national team fold - until an injury got in the way and his rival stepped in. Pieterse was finally given a chance by Stuart Baxter, a man he worked with at Chiefs between 2013 and 2015, when Williams got hurt late last month. But just how do goalies handle competition when there’s just one position they are all desperately fighting for? “You have to stay focused,” Pieterse says. “And be ready at any point because you never know what can happen. Ronwen got injured, Khune got injured. When you are second fiddle or No 2, whatever you want to call it, you always need to be ready because your chance can come at any point. “I try to grab the chance that I get. “I was competing with two good goalkeepers at Chiefs (the other being Brilliant Khuzwayo), and had to wait.” Pieterse has now played in five consecutive matches and kept three clean sheets for SuperSport while Williams is still on the sidelines, making Baxter’s decision a difficult one when both are fit and available. The 1.92m tall Pieterse has proved time again that he is more than just back-up. And Andre Arendse, an experienced former keeper himself who now takes Pieterse, Williams and third choice keeper Boalefa Pule through their paces daily, also influences the coach’s final assessment on who should be starting. “He has been phenomenal,” says Pieterse about former Bafana goal minder Arendse. “He has been helping and guiding each and everyone of us and that is important for us. We want to build the momentum and keep getting better.” @superjourno @extrastrongsa The Star