Durban ANC leaders in KwaZulu-Natal were on Monday falling over themselves in affirming outgoing African Union (AU) chairwoman Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma s suitability as the next leader of the ruling party after she had delivered a state of the union s address.Dlamini-Zuma had been endorsed in the province as the replacement for her former husband, President Jacob Zuma, when the ANC hold its elective conference in December next year. Her praises came from the eThekwini Region ANC Youth League, eThekwini Municipal deputy mayor Fawzia Peer and MECs Ravi Pillay, Bongi Sithole-Moloi and Weziwe Thusi.Dlamini-Zuma was in Durban to deliver her last state of the AU report, which reflected success in addressing problems facing Africa, and this was seen as a reflection of her success in driving changes in the continent.eThekwini ANCYL spokesman Thulisa Ndlela said the report confirmed that Dlamini-Zuma was capable of taking South Africa forward after Zuma. If they (Dlamini-Zuma s opponents) are not convinced we have to start checking their level of rationality. Even a blind man could see that Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma is one that is ready to lead our organisation, said Ndlela.Ndlela said the ANCYL was impressed by Dlamini-Zuma s effort to make sure that governments in the continent were working with businesses and universities in identifying skills that were needed to develop the continent s economy. Young people of the ANC have always constantly called for a greater involvement by the Minister of Higher Education Blade Nzimande in making sure that he particularly directs the curriculum in the institutions respond to the need of this economy.&quot;Ndlela denounced suspicions that the ANC had spearheaded Dlamini-Zuma s visit to his powerful province to deliver the report in an effort to kickstart her campaign for ANC presidency against deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa. Peer said Dlamini-Zuma has brought a new era of hope in the continent, whose success was a victory for women. She has been an exemplary leader and the role model for millions of women who desire to make a different in society. Everywhere we go, and every meeting we attend women salute Dlamini-Zuma, she said.Peer said Dlamini-Zuma used her AU position to fight against poverty and economic disempowerment of woman. She likened her to Mkabayi kaJama, King Shaka s aunt, American struggle stalwarts Rosa Parks, and also called her an extension of Mama Lilian Ngoyi . She is not just a local leader, but an international leader. We are convinced that she would be able to drive foreign direct investment into the country through friendly political and economical relationships. As women we are not apologetic is stating that she is capable of leading any position. She is capable of running this country, said Peer.University of KwaZulu-Natal political analyst Bheki Mngomezulu said there might have been negotiations between the AU secretariat and the ruling party for her deliver the address in KZN. They wanted to end her term on the high note and remind South Africans that we have a leader who has proven herself that she is capable. This would help to get her enough ANC branches to second her name. In the elective conference they would say they are not just making that decision on baseless argument, but they have something of substance to support her, said Mngomezulu.The Mercury