Pretoria - Competition authorities in the Southern African Development Community (SADC) have declared war on anti-competitive practices such as price-fixing, collusion and bid-rigging. Tembinkosi Bonakele, the Commissioner of the SA Competition Commission, said the authorities on Wednesday approved and adopted detailed frameworks for future co-operation on mergers and cartel investigations at an extraordinary meeting of the SADC standing committee on competition and consumer law and policy.Bonakele said these agreements followed the signature of the landmark memorandum of understanding between the authorities in May this year.He said the agreements signed saw the adoption of a comprehensive cartels co-operation framework, which aimed to promote greater regional co-operation and co-ordination in cartel investigation processes and enable SADC members to improve the quality and efficiency of their cartel investigation processes. The signal we are giving is that there is no safe haven for cartels in SADC. We are quite determined to assist other competition authorities in uprooting them. SADC competition authorities have moved beyond holding talk shops. We are entering a new era of accelerated competition law enforcement in the SADC region, he said.Bonakele said cartel conduct by companies was one of the most harmful forms of anti-competitive conduct.He said the egregious effects of cartels in Africa were documented in a joint report by the African Competition Forum and the World Bank, which showed the retail prices of 10 key consumer goods, including bread, milk, eggs, potatoes and frozen chicken were on average 24 percent higher in African cities than in other economies around the world. Read also: Zim scraps visas for SADC countriesBonakele said 10 SADC countries had signed the memorandum and the framework agreements and five countries had not. He said the Democratic Republic of Congo, Angola and Lesotho did not yet have competition laws while Mozambique and Madagascar had only recently promulgated their competition laws and were trying to establish their competition institutions.Bonakele said competition authorities in SADC had a history of cross-border cartel activity but never had a co-operation arrangement with each other, which meant these cases were never pursued as a region but by individual countries. But Bonakele said they had reason to believe and sometimes even had fairly clear evidence that showed these cartels worked beyond South Africa s borders, such as the construction and milling industries. If we know we have similar problems in certain sectors, we would work with our SADC colleagues. We have been in the public domain about certain sectors that we are concerned about, with cement being one of them, he said.Bonakele said competition laws in SADC countries were fairly harmonised and what they were now doing was enhancing co-operation in enforcing these laws. He downplayed potential problems with companies possibly claiming double jeopardy if they were charged for the same competition law &shy;contravention in more than one SADC country. I m looking forward to a day where we have a problem of double jeopardy because it would mean we are quite effective and have managed to catch the same company in more than one jurisdiction. We will cross that bridge when we come to it, he said.Luyamba Mpamba, the director of the mergers and monopolies division at the Zambian Competition and Consumer Protection Commission, stressed SADC was not a single market but different jurisdictions and would involve another commission of the crime. However, Mpamba admitted the issue of double jeopardy might apply when considering a crime committed in the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (Comesa).Comesa is a free trade area with 20 member states stretching from Libya to Swaziland.BUSINESS REPORT