Here is an expansive list of ideas for you to choose from. Enjoy!  1. Home coffee connoisseurs get your noses out of those boring mugs and wake up and smell real cappuccino style. LoveMilo, a chic new brand of homeware based in Cape Town, has a ceramic butterfly range to get any caffeine addict’s heart a-flutter. With a tattoo-like marking, the fine cup has a wide rim and the wooden saucer is large enough to hold a biscotti. Buy online at www.lovemilo.co.za or from Superbalist.com 2. Kids of all ages are captivated by the story of ET being transported into space on a bicycle. Bike-makers haven’t quite mastered the fly-cycle but the new array of leisure bikes cruising onto the market is likely to get any eco-commuter phoning home. Fixies (or one-speeds) offer wide handlebars, shopping baskets and generous curved bodywork reminiscent of the Eighties. They also boast vintage colours such as mellow yellow and plum. In Cape Town, visit The Handle Bar on 021 286 1089 or view their range at www.handlebar.co.za. In Joburg, chat to Mike at Mike’s Bikes on 011 888 8868 or e-mail mike@mikesbikes.co.za in Greenside. Prices range from R5 000 up. 3. Weylandts is known for its distinctive merging of clean minimalism with a raw, earthy spirit, presenting the rare, the beautiful and curated seasonal ranges. This year, Yule love Weylandt’s copper fondue set – a burner and four stainless steel forks. Cast in one piece, it is the ideal gift for the hostess with the mostest. Buy at stores countrywide for R2 995 or at www.weylandts.co.za. Watch its Facebook page for daily give-aways. 4. Craft food and drink has emerged as one of the biggest trends in 2016 and many of the exciting brands can be bought at mainstream retailers. Why not do some of your own crafting and package festive cheer as a hostess gift yourself? Use a box or basket from home and fill it with artisanal beer (around R35 from Makro) and a couple of beer glasses from a home store. Or for the bakers in your family, fill an old biscuit tin with home-made goodies bought at the local market. Bundle it all up with cellophane and a handmade card for a slow-brewed effect. Alternatively, go to www.bespokebouquet.co.za to buy direct for R499. 5. There is nothing better than an afternoon nap while on holiday and a soft throw-cum-blanket is the ideal accessory on a sunny bed. Similar to the Turkish bath towels used in the hammam’s, the soft, cotton fabric throws are perfect cross-overs for both poolside and post-beach siestas. Hertex’s new beach blanket range (110cmx160cm) is the ideal cuddle-mate, priced at R499 from superbalist.com and www.hertex.co.za 6. Bring the garden indoors and breathe fresh air into anyone’s living areas, bathroom or patio with hanging glass terrariums. The new range of glass baubles, attached with rustic rope to glass shower walls or ceilings, offers a fresh and innovative approach to indoor gardening. Air plants or cactuses suspended in a small amount of water will last ages and look great with any style interior. Available form most homeware stores, including Mr Price from R199. Air plants are also available from gardening centres or harvest a small cactus from the garden for a personal touch.  7. The ladies’ handbag has evolved over the years and, like shoes, one can never have too many. Eco-shoppers and stylish “ladies who lunch” will love the over-the-shoulder purses offered at Yuill’s shop of curiosities at Y and M studios. The recycled fabric is a perfect size, with leather straps. Joburgers can delight in the Craighall Park showroom (the original Post Office) which features art, 3D printed figurines and a festive array of gifts for any pocket. They also have a collection of quirky cuff links made from wood and old five cent coins. “Trishes bags” are R770. To get you hands on one call Michela at 074 106 8233 or e-mail admin@yiull.com. 8. Vintage is back and if the number of record fairs and markets in the cities are anything to go by, the LP is back for good. The Troubadour is a wood-styled vinyl record player that boasts timber detailing and retro styling – perfect to showcase the ever-growing move to long-playing records. Hook it up to a free-standing speaker for more oomph. The Crosley Troubadour is available from Incredible Connection, countrywide, for R2 499. 9. Varsity newbies and high school freshers’ are bound to need additional glow for their educational endeavours and a lamp provides a stylish and practical gifting alternative. The Manhattan wood lamp from Woolworths Studio ticks all the boxes and is compact enough to use on a home desk or office, or in a bedroom for bedside lighting. At R425, it is also a condensed price. Buy online at www.woolworths.co.za or in-store. 10. Whether you are entertaining or playing “Secret Santa” at a family gathering, no hostess-of-note could resist the Yves Delorme tablecloth inspired by the Stella bed linen range. The gorgeous fabric is 100% cotton and available in 180cmx180cm or 180cmx2.8m or a lengthy 180cmx3.2m. Matching napkins are available. The cloths are available at Yes Delorme, Shop 20, Groenkloof Plaza, George Storrar Drive, Pretoria. Saturday Star 