Port Elizabeth Two men charged with the murder of 2-year-old Caydene Ruiters were found guilty on all charges against them in the Port Elizabeth High Court on Monday. A total of seven witnesses placed Marcus Malgas and Gregory Van Staden at the scene where the toddler was shot and killed after they recklessly fired shots towards a group of people during a gang-related shooting in December last year. Caydene was in front of a house in Barcelona with her mother, sister and four men when a stray bullet hit her in the back. The girl was taken to Livingstone hospital but was declared dead shortly after arrival. The men who are apparently members of a notorious gang &quot;Sestien Honde&quot; (Sixteen Dogs) were convicted on 11 charges which include murder, attempted murder and unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition. Delivering her judgement on Monday, Judge Onika Van Papendorp said that the toddler's mother Davidene and her sister Tamlynn were traumatised by the incident, but were good witnesses. Van Papendorp added that Juwayne Camfer was also a good witness who positively identified both the men at the scene. She said that Eon Daries (Puffy) played open cards with the court in which he openly admitted to being a member of the Gazas, a rival gang in the area. According to Camfer the shooting took place that day because Daries was present in the group. The toddler's mother Davidene Ruiters was overcome with emotion, she sobbed uncontrollably and walked out of the courtroom upon hearing a summary of the trial during judgement. Following the conviction Davidene told reporters that she was grateful to God and felt a sense of closure. &quot;I was a bit scared but now everything is over. I want to thank Advocate [Jason] Thysse and the Investigating Officer [Conrad] Goosen. It will not bring my daughter back but at least they will sit [in jail].&quot; She urged witnesses involved in gang cases not to be scared and come forward to testify. &quot;I want to say to people who are witnesses in gang cases do not be scared. I am very grateful to the witnesses who testified freely in the case,&quot; she said. Sentencing proceedings are expected to get underway on Tuesday. African News Agency