The year 2016 marked the culmination of a decline of liberation politics in South Africa. Liberal politics of petty bourgeois class contestation over political power and control of economic resources assumed the centre stage.The fight over the control of the National Treasury; squabbles over state capture ; and the serialised motions of no-confidence in President Jacob Zuma to resign as president are some of the hallmarks that manifest the consolidation of liberal democracy. This is a culmination of what Codesa was about - the political and economic elite setting the rules of accessing political power on the one hand; and the rules of economic resource, or wealth accumulation, on the other hand.Codesa was never about the socio-economic advancement of the masses.The removal of Nhlanhla Nene as finance minister in December 2015 marked most of the elite-class contestation that became dominant in 2016. His removal, and the reaction to it, was inspired by elite interests. This ushered in 2016, the extreme individualisation of South Africa s politics. In this regard, two individuals stood out: Zuma and Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan. But these two are not to be understood as individuals per se, but as an embodiment of certain groupings within the elite classes.In this class power struggle, Zuma is an antithesis of the current dominant capitalist establishment. His removal of Nene cost the dominant capitalist class huge sums of money. His association with the Gupta family alienates one elite group from the mainstream political power and thereby economic control and influence. But then Zuma s defenders must equally not be seen as leftist defenders of the poor and marginalised. They are equally within the petty bourgeoisie class preoccupied with their own packets. In the current political environment, liberation politics only exists at a rhetorical level.None of the political contestation addresses the plight of the poor, the unemployed and the disadvantaged. The irony is that even the purported left gets it wrong. At the recent Numsa conference, Gordhan was welcomed positively, and yet Cyril Ramaphosa was demonised as an agent of capitalism. Something akin to Ramaphosa having forgotten his union roots. But, in the bigger scheme of things, Gordhan represents monopoly interests capital domestically and internationally.Therefore he should be the least to enjoy a positive reception at a supposedly leftist Numsa conference. Similarly, Minister of Economic Development Ebrahim Patel enjoyed a positive welcome and yet his policies represent liberal economics. This again marked the generic minimalism of perceiving individuals as the determining forces of society s prosperity for socio-economic prosperity, rather than structural conditions. But then the main motive of 2016 politics is who is pro-Zuma, anti-Zuma, pro-Gordhan and anti-Gordhan.But this is not the end of it. The bigger outcome is who of these two best represents group economic interests.Contrary to liberal propaganda, the battle is not between the corrupt and the progressives. It is a war of political elite interest groups that seek to dominate state decisions in control of state resources. Neither can claim legitimacy. They are as bad as the opposing group they are fighting. The pro-Gordhan camp is not in the elite class battle for South Africa, but for itself. Similarly, the pro-Zuma camp is not mass ideologically-driven, but driven by self-interests. In essence, the masses are increasingly becoming spectators in political developments post-1994. The liberation agenda has practically reached a cul de sac. The SACP is substantively dead. It is not interested in the economic advancement of the poor, but its own elite leadership. From the struggles for free education, and land restoration, it has been useful in the maintenance of the apartheid socio-economic status quo.The leadership elite of the SACP is part of the liberal capitalist elite. In 2016, the SACP has been anything but a communist party. Properly defined, it has been nothing but an interest group, one that has not been entirely concerned about its membership, but its elite leadership remaining in cabinet In other words, the membership base of the SACP has not benefited, but the leadership has benefited from having an unsuspecting membership base.But this is not unique to the SACP. The ANC leadership elite has also benefited from its membership base, structures and processes.Zuma frequently refers to such structures and processes because, for now, he and his elite faction have captured the majority within the structures.ANC grassroots structures and processes have fundamentally existed to legitimise the elite leadership. They are not the basis for legitimate grassroots democracy, but they exist to legitimise ANC elite leadership power.Michael Bratton, the US professor of political science and African studies, defined liberal democracy as the elite consensus of the political rules of the game .This is what the elite petty bourgeoisie agreed on at Codesa: the rules of power political contestation. Hence, frequently, the South African constitution is deemed as the best constitution in the world . Correctly defined, it is the best liberal constitution in the world. It secures the well-being of the elite class, while keeping at bay the masses from any possible redistribution and social justice.For now, the masses are dormant. They are demilitarised and demobilised. This happened because the interests on the petty bourgeoisie class are driven by the well-being of the masses. The year 2016 therefore saw a multiracial Zuma Must Fall movement rising to the occasion, purely on a liberal middle-class interest basis. While the middle and elite class rose to political prominence in 2016, the masses were conspicuously silent because the former liberation, and now liberal political elite, manages the masses with liberation rhetoric. But the fundamental truth is that the petty bourgeoisie are more concerned about their own economic advancement and preservation than the historical liberation agenda.Thus, South African politics reached a plateau in 2016. It stabilised. It stabilised on the liberal capitalist political economy. Liberal capitalism has emerged as the dominant political economy of South Africa. In this milieu, the elite political class finds resonance with the elite economic class. The new alliances that manifested the most in 2016 through state capture and other forms of alliances indicated the increasing ganging up of the elite in disregard of the masses.In this regard, it is actually immaterial who takes over after Zuma. At least for the masses. The biggest preoccupation of the current dominant economic class, inside and outside the ANC, is the stabilisation of the capitalist economy. It is the satisfaction of international capitalist monopoly that determines domestic economy. Hence, right now, the whole society is galvanised to satisfy the requirements of the global rating agencies. Rather than a liberal ideological position, the rating agencies are presented as a natural way of doing things. This is where South Africa is - entrenched and encapsulated in liberal political economy. More than any other preoccupation, elite class struggles will continue to manifest South African politics.While the economic elite class struggles wage on, the masses are banished to the stands as the spectators. The liberation agenda has become nothing but a rhetoric. The next president, after Zuma, will prioritise the well-being of this elite class interests, and the masses will remain in the perpetual state of hope. Once the emptiness of this hope becomes too much to bear, the masses will find leaders among themselves and rise against the establishment. But this will not happen in 2017.The December 2017 ANC elective conference will bring another liberation hope. But that will be a mere rhetoric, while the political economic elite battle over wealth accumulation. Increasingly, the reality that Codesa was never about the masses, but elite pact, will crystallise. Liberation will be spoken about as a once upon a time .* Hlophe is governance specialist at the Unisa School of Governance. He writes in his personal capacity.** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.The Sunday Independent