Johannesburg South Africa s second largest mobile operator, MTN, says it has prepared its network for increased traffic over the festive season.The operator, which has 29.7 million subscribers in South Africa, says in a statement issued on Thursday that it has optimised its network capacity and coverage to cater for increased voice and data traffic over the festive season. MTN expects traffic on its network to peak during the next few days as people take a break from work and get to spend more time on social media platforms, stream and watch content on their devices and reconnect with friends and family. The festive period and South Africa s traditional slow business period which starts on December 16 and continues into early January is typically a busy period for network operators, with volumes hitting highs on December 25 and New Year s Day. MTN explains the festive season network improvements are part of the ongoing network upgrade that MTN has embarked on in the past eighteen months, which includes improving network quality and coverage along the freeways, national roads and high density areas across the country in order to reduce dropped calls and boost indoor coverage and speeds. Read also: MTN in management shakeup We are confident of the work we have done to enhance our network quality and coverage in preparation for the holiday season. We have upgraded our system nodes and data centers to cater to increased voice and data traffic. The multi-pronged network optimisation strategy also encompassed a site by site analysis, the enhancements of software features equipped with an early warning system functionality that allows MTN to detect glitches before they manifest themselves, and improved network capacity and skills, says recently-appointed chief technology and information officer Giovanni Chiarelli. The operator is also seeking to capatalise on the surging demand for data, which is increasingly becoming a major contributor to revenue. MTN notes it has doubled LTE throughput speeds in the last eighteen months. In addition, 3G coverage in rural areas was also improved through spectrum layering. The network upgrades focused mainly on improving upload and download speeds, and comprised of continuous monthly drive tests to assess network quality and coverage, the company notes. BUSINESS REPORT &nbsp;