Cape Town - A Cape Flats man said he lost thousands of rands after falling for a bogus Microsoft agent who claimed his computer was hacked.The southern suburbs man said he was duped out of R3 500 for a protection plan to prevent his laptop from crashing.The man, who asked not to be identified, said he received a call from an Indian man last Tuesday, who said their system showed his laptop had been hacked.The factory worker said he only uses his laptop to do basic things, like checking emails and to download music . I ve been receiving phone calls from these people once a week, but I would just hang up, the man explained. I don t know why I believed them this time. This person with an Indian accent sounded so convincing. He said, sir, there s something wrong with your computer. We re from Microsoft, we pick these things up . He was instructed to enter certain codes into his laptop, which brought up a window with a list of programmes.The man said: On the list there were programmes that were running and others that had stopped. The guy on the phone then said, you see all the stopped programmes? My dear sir, you ve been hacked. We need to repair this because your malware has been compromised . The man admits he thought it would be a good thing to get his laptop sorted out, as his wife has been nagging him to sign up for Internet banking.He could see them opening his emails, and half an hour later the agent announced that they found the problem and that he needed to buy software to protect his computer or it would crash.The man said: There were three protection plans to choose from, a three-year plan for&nbsp; 220 (about R3 500), a five-year for&nbsp; 310, and a 10-year plan for&nbsp; 612. An amount of&nbsp; 220 was transferred to Yogi Tech Technologies. Picture: Supplied He bought the three-year plan and paid via credit card over the phone, but when he tried to log onto his email, he couldn t. That s when I realised I ve been conned. I was a dumb bastard, said the man. I immediately called Microsoft and they told me that they have been getting calls like this every week. The proof of services email he received was sent by a company called PC Yogi Tech Technologies.The online tech support company offers services via remote assistance .Several calls to the company s international number proved unsuccessful, however.Upon investigation, it was discovered the www.pcyogitech.com website had only been registered in Arizona, USA, in June this year. A Microsoft South Africa employee told Daily Voice that they are aware of the Indian agent scam, but referred queries to their media liaison. The employee said: Each case has been passed on to the legal department for further investigation. Microsoft will never call users to report a problem. Daily Voice