Kimberley - A 66-year-old Kimberley man has been killed in a horrific accident involving six vehicles.Well-known Kimberley resident Ivor Zondagh was killed on the N12 near Modderrivier on Monday afternoon when he was hit by a car while standing outside his vehicle, after being involved in a five-car pile-up.It is believed that heavy smoke from burning shrubs on a nearby farm adjacent to the N12 could have blurred the vision of motorists, leading to the initial accident that involved five vehicles, which rear-ended each other. After the deceased s vehicle was bumped from the rear, he apparently got out of his vehicle and tried to ascertain the extent of the damage, when he was hit by another vehicle.Zondagh was declared dead on the scene, while other motorists involved in the accident were transported to the hospital to receive medical treatment for injuries they sustained.Police spokesman, Colonel Mohale Ramatseba, said on Tuesday that the Modderrivier Police were investigating a case of culpable homicide following the fatal accident.Zondagh s wife, Annemarie, was on Tuesday still reeling in shock following the death of her husband.She said that her husband was on his way home from working in De Aar when the incident occurred. Zondagh leaves behind two sons, Micheal and Craig. His daughter, Melissa, died three years ago.The Park Tennis Club, of which Zondagh was the chairman, on Tuesday posted the following on Facebook: It is with great sadness and deep personal regret that we have to inform you of the sudden and shocking passing of our chairman, Ivor Zondagh, in a motor vehicle accident on the N12. Our thoughts go out to Annemarie and their family during this sad time. We have lost a dear and valued friend of many years and the loss to our Club will be deeply felt. Another Facebook user posted: Today, the Almighty Father called home another great man. Dad Ivor. Though he was not my father by blood, he was a dad to me anyway and he treated me like a son. So today I want to say to the Zondagh family that I weep with you, for he was my dad, my family too. I thus ask God in heaven once again, as I have done when HE in HIS wisdom took my other beloved people home to Him, to please keep Dad Ivor in HIS loving arms and to bless the family who misses him dearly. Love you Dad Ivor. Thank you for your love and care. Thank you for everything you were on this earth. Diamond Fields Advertiser