Cape Town Brazen armed robbers hit at least five businesses, including three malls, in 24 hours on Wednesday.In one incident, suspects pounced on two security guards who were about to load cash into an ATM at a mall in Goodwood. Hawks spokesman Captain Lloyd Ramovha said the circumstances surrounding a cash-in-transit heist on Wednesday are under investigation. Circumstances surrounding an apparent cash in transit heist on Wednesday morning just before 9am are being investigated, it is alleged that about four armed suspects accosted Fidelity guards who were about to make a cash drop-off into ATMs at the N1 City Mall in Goodwood, he said. They allegedly robbed the guards of handguns and an undisclosed amount of cash before fleeing the scene in a red Mazda 2 which was later found abandoned near Summer Greens.&quot;Preliminary investigations revealed that the vehicle had allegedly been hijacked earlier this month in Elsies River. A case of armed robbery with aggravating circumstances is being investigated, There have no arrests yet. In another incident, police spokeswoman Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana said a case of attempted business robbery has been opened for investigation.Vangate Mall s Gouwa Waja-Stemme confirmed an attempted armed robbery at the mall on Wednesday morning. Nobody was hurt. Management would like to assure customers that their safety remains the highest priority and they will continue to ensure that all security measures are in place. Security procedures are constantly being evaluated and tenants and staff are being educated accordingly, she said.A bakery in Paarden Eiland also fell victim to a robbery. Rwexana said a case of business robbery is under investigation after four armed suspects entered a bakery in Section Street, Paarden Eiland.She said the suspects fled the scene in a white Mercedes Benz with an undisclosed amount of money.There had also been a burglary at a jewellery store in Kenilworth Centre on Tuesday night.The suspects fled with an undisclosed amount of jewellery.&nbsp;Rwexana&nbsp;said no arrests have yet been and and the police were investigating. Yet another business was hit in Gatesville on Wednesday. Rwexana said the robbery at a shop had not been reported, but that the police were aware of the incident. [email&#160;protected] Cape Argus