There was so much heat in the 65-seater shuttle, I was left wondering if it was because of the weather or the hotness of Muvhango actor Zwelethu Dube, who was travelling with us. He kept us awake with his great sense of humour along the way. Isibaya’s equally hot actor, Pallance Dladla, kept his head down for the most part of the trip. It could have been that he is naturally shy or perhaps he didn't like our mode of transport. Other well-heeled celebrities, such as actress Omuhle Gela and fashion stylist Tshepi Vundla opted to drive to Sun City than ride in a bus. The hotel where we stayed has lush botanical gardens which include the area's three swimming pools, 12 waterfalls and cataracts. Sun Park was clearly built for festival and music lovers. We were given a tour to Sun Central where the games and entertainment centre is. Starters were served as we soaked in the new VIP gaming experience. We later moved to the new luxurious Splice party venue to be welcomed by a cabaret -singing duo, while sipping exotic cocktails. The dimly-lit venue was decorated in gold and white. High and low cream chairs were scattered around the room, and the cocktail tables were covered with gold table cloths. I loved the fine touch of clear, small vases with white orchids as centre pieces. Miss South Africa 2004 Claudia Henkel, as usual, played hostess, looking very sexy in red. Sun International bosses gave speeches before the partying got under way. There was plenty of food served, but the current Miss SA finalists did not make any trips to the buffet table. They were all stuck with their water bottles making the rest of us feel ashamed to be indulging on mash and lamb chops. Oh well, I am not in a beauty competition. A surprise performance by newly formed Supreme 3 - Loyiso Bala, Lloyd Cele and Danny K - made my day. I wonder if we'll see an album soon. It's a weird combination but they kept us entertained with their romantic ballads - Luther Vandross would have been so proud. The final stop was the new clubbing venue called Encore. It has a nice chic and contemporary retro feel to it. An assortment of desserts was served as we got down to the sounds of internationally acclaimed DJ Black Coffee. The Sunday Independent