 Abu Dhabi - Whether 2016 was your year or not, the time has come to bid farewell to what was and celebrate what is to come…and there is no better place to do it, than Abu Dhabi. As with all things in Abu Dhabi, welcoming the year 2017 in the Emirati capital promises to be nothing but spectacular. Here's just a taste of what you can look forward to.  The sweet sounds of Coldplay News just in - Coldplay is returning to Abu Dhabi after a five-year hiatus. The British quartet will play a gig on New Year's Eve at du Arena on Yas Island as part of their A Head Full of Dreams tour - the tour that may or may not be the group's last following the release of an album of the same name. This is the third time Coldplay has performed in the UAE, following gigs in 2009 and 2011. Tickets go on sale November 30. For more information visit www.thinkflash.ae  Anantara festive celebrations Don't just limit the celebrations to New Year's Eve. Anantara Hotels, Resorts and Spas has prepared a Festive Season line-up that will delight. On December 24, visitors can mark the start of the celebrations over an indulgent evening buffet featuring seasonal favourites such as foie gras, freshly shucked oysters, roasted turkey and homemade sweets at Al Waha. Alternatively head to Ghadeer and feast around al fresco by the pool with delectable starters, main courses and delicious dessert or discover the flavoursome riches of signature dining on the rooftop at Suhail with a five course menu paired with cellared beverages, complemented by spectacular views of the desert. To fill the wait to New Year's Eve you can go swinging in the desert. On December 27-29, discover nights of infectious big band swing jazz with Swing Deluxe. Formed in 2003 by young Parisian musicians, year on year their concerts have evolved into full-scale musical events including singing, swing, gypsy Jazz and Russian cabaret performed at the Jazz clubs of Paris, Europe and the Middle East. Once you've satisfied your appetite you are cordially invited to join the festivities at the courtyard and celebrate under the stars to the beats of a live DJ, fire shows, and a spectacular firework in the dunes when midnight strikes to welcome 2017.  Southern Sun Hotel- Abu Dhabi Festive Season 2016 There is no slowing down at the Southern Sun Hotel Abu Dhabi with its Festive Season 2016 line-up. Starting on December 10, gorge on freshly-baked festive goodies from Filaments. Indulge in your childhood favourites, including gingerbread cookies, mince pies, yule log, rich Christmas plum cake and marzipan Stollen.  Cheers to the New Year! On December 31, join in the fun and celebrations at the New Year's Eve Gala Dinner brought to you by The Foundry restaurant. The restaurant's exquisite buffet will feature live stations and a diverse assortment of treats, as well as bubbly and canapés on arrival. Head to the rooftop party later on, where DJ SIA will be spinning popular party tracks to bring in the New Year on a high note. Sing and dance the night away until 03h00 the next morning. Also, experience fireworks from all over the city and stunning views on New Year's Eve at Southern Sun Abu Dhabi's Hytes Bar, situated on the hotel's highest floor.  Arabian Nights Village Arabian Nights Village is also looking forward to another fabulous New Year's Eve Gala Dinner in its authentic Emirati heritage venue. Visitors to Abu Dhabi are invited to them for a night of luxurious celebrations amidst the majestic sand dunes of Arabian Nights Village on December 31.   So much more in Abu Dhabi If you are in the mood for something different also consider these top picks: Al Maryah Island: If you are on a tight budget, this free event insures exciting celebrations without having to worry about the cost. Over 8,000 people are expected to join the Island's event. A colourful spectacle of fireworks will be displayed, as well as live music and food trucks. Harvesters: For those who enjoy a colourful neon theme night, Harvesters in Holiday Inn will be the place to celebrate. Live sounds by DJ Ban and the band Summerisle will be playing at the rave-style glow in the dark party. The entrance is free and there are special promotions for beverages. Skylite: Look forward to breathtaking views are in store at this free walk in entry event for New Year's Eve. The roof top lounge bar allows visitors to see impeccable water views, as well as views of Yas Marina Circuit. There will be a live DJ playing. Glo: If you are not in the mood for a night of heavy partying, make your way to Rosewood Hotel's poolside terrace, which also includes a free entry. Celebrate the night while listening to a special guest DJ and watching the firework display that is hosted by Al Maryah Island. Iris: Iris Yas Island is one of the most popular spots for party-goers in the capital. There will be a line-up of live music, as well as live performance acts, which includes singers, dancers, surprise guest DJ and even an illusionist. Guests will also have a set menu, which is included in the 1 000 dirhams package. Those with a smaller budget can opt for the 500 dirhams deal, which includes open drinks after midnight. Blue Marlin Ibiza:Possibly one of the best locations to celebrate New Year's Eve since world-renowned DJs will be arriving for this one-night-only event. DJ Luciano and DJ Davide Squillance will play special beats for party-goers who can also enjoy dinner. Adapted from a press release for IOL