Durban - As the Nazareth Baptist Church prepares for its annual holy pilgrimage, the police, the Ilembe District and Ndwedwe Local Municipalities have vowed to pull out all the stops to ensure that the walk up the mountains is peaceful.At a media briefing held at in Ndwedwe on Thursday, both municipalities outlined their plans for the walk in January.On the sidelines of the briefing, the police confirmed their preparedness for the event.Ndwedwe mayor Vincent Chili said they had had numerous meetings this year to discuss how the four different factions, comprising hundreds of thousands of Shembe followers, would walk up to the mountains. We work with the police, the district municipality and other role players to ensure that all goes well during the walk. Even though there were challenges during the discussions, we are however happy with the fact that parties agreed to climb the mountains on different days and times. We take the decision by the different factions of the church as a show of understanding and tolerance within the Nazareth congregation, said Chili.Asked to expand on the challenges faced in the planning discussions, Ilembe District Mayor Sduduzo Gumede said: We were part of the preparation meetings and the challenges were not serious. We were able to agree on a successful journey with all the parties involved. They would start preparing for the 2018 pilgrimage very early as they believe much needed to be done, including the involvement of the transport, economic development and tourism departments. There are huge economic spin-offs for the locals, and the local mayor has to engage local taxi associations to ensure the smooth transportation of people, he said. All four Shembe faction leaders - Ekuphakameni (led by iNkosi iNcoyincoyi), eBuhleni (by iNkosi uNyazilwezulu), eThembezinhle (iNkosi iMisebeyelanga) and eGinyezinye (by iNkosi uMudliwamafa) - were also present at the meeting.Thetha Ngiba, secretary-general of the Ekuphakameni faction, said the different sides understood the importance of tolerance. We haven t had time to sit down with an intention to speak of what divides the church, and work on a solution that will bring all sides together. However, we have all accepted that there has to be tolerance. This journey we are about to take is a blessing to all South Africans, hence the need for all of us to set our differences aside during this time, said Ngiba.They would do the two-day 40 km walk from Ekuphakameni to Nhlangakazi Mountain on January 2.Chancey Sibisi from eThembezinhle called for tolerance among the different factions. They would leave for Nhlangakazi on January 11.The eBuhleni group start their pilgrimage to Ozwathini Holy Mountain on January 2, while the eGinyezinye group depart for Nhlangakazi on January 18.The groups would worship from different venues between January 2 and January 24.Warrant Officer Mbongeni Mbuyisa, on behalf of the Ndwedwe police station commander, said they were on track in their preparations for the pilgrimages. We will deploy police from eBuhleni to Ozwathini. We are improving security annually and we have already started putting security measures in place. Daily News