Durban - In a snap survey to determine whether Santa was naughty or nice this festive season, the Daily News found most of Durban shopping malls still preferred the traditional Santa Claus while a select few took a sexier approach.However, all the Santas interviewed agreed it was their love for children that inspired their dedication to this special job.Musgrave Centre s Santa, also known as Steven Delis, said: I like children. I am happy to see kids with smiles and I do this for fun. The 65-year-old has taken on the important role for the past three years.Bubbly Lindsay Clive was a favourite with children at City View Shopping Centre, who said language was not a communication barrier because he was fluent in isiZulu. I do this to help the community and to promote the mall, but generally I do it to attract people, especially kids, and to generate business, the 70-year-old explained. This is my first time as Father Christmas, but I usually get invited to children s parties. I will definitely do this again because it is a lot of fun, he said.Davin Ryley, 65, always keeps a short beard, but he grew his own long white beard for eight months to prepare for his role as Santa this year. Ryley, seen at Galleria shopping centre, has been Santa for five years now.The Pavilion s Santa, Bryan Steyn, said: It is easy to interact with the children. I have seven grandchildren so I am used to all of this. Seeing them happy is what makes me happy too. I will keep on coming back. Raising body temperatures and causing quite a stir at uShaka Marine World was 29-year-old Vuyo Ngwabe.Ngwabe, also known as Sexy Santa , felt the role chose him instead of the other way around. This is the place to be this festive season. I look forward to meeting and engaging with more people from different backgrounds. It is a fun and awesome thing to do. As Sexy Santa, I m trying to appeal to the young generation, said the uMlazi resident who is also a qualified social worker, full-time model and businessman.Daily News