Hours before the announcement of the male IAAF Athlete of the Year Award in Monaco, Wayde van Niekerk reflected on a season in which a set a standard so high it will take some doing to keep up. The 400m world record holder and Olympic champion has been elevated to superstar status over the last year or so and could add another feather to his cap should he be named ahead of iconic Jamaican sprinter Usain Bolt and British distance ace Mo Farah. “I am so glad and blessed that it actually did work out my way but it really set the bar quite high for myself for the future,” Van Niekerk said ahead of the Awards evening. “Now I just need to go out there and improve that and try and better where I left of this year and the years before.” Van Niekerk cuts a calm and collected figure but admits he had to get used to the pressure as an occupational hazard. “The pressure will always be there, we as sports people there will always be pressure even the years when I wasn't Olympic or World Champion there was pressure to lose,” Van Niekerk said. “There will always be pressure but we accept it as it comes and we try to use the opportunities and execute them as best we can.” The 24-year-old displayed his unreal versatility this season when became the first man to dip below 10s, 20s, and 44s in the 100m, 200m. That seems to be both a blessing and a curse as Van Niekerk looks to give justice to his insane talents. Van Niekerk is keen to race the shorter sprints in 2017 without losing ground over the 400m which has earned him world-wide acclaim. “I definitely would love to do more 100m and 200m but I think only time will tell and it will depend on what times I run and where I want to do what and at the same time not neglect the 400m,” Van Niekerk said. “It brought me this far and I still have so much improvement to do as a 400m athlete so I am quite excited to do more sprints but at the same time I want to improve my 400m. “It is going to be tough so I am still not sure which events to pinpoint but I am going to take it race by race.” Independent Media