Pretoria - Only Parliament can decide whether&nbsp; South Africa&nbsp; should withdraw from the International Criminal Court (ICC) and it is not a decision which can be taken by the executive. This is according to Advocate Steven Budlender, on behalf of the DA, who on Monday asked the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, to set side the decision to withdraw from the ICC. A full bench (three judges) are hearing the application against the Ministers of International Relations and Cooperation and Justice, as well as against President Jacob Zuma. Various interested groups such as the Centre for Human Rights and the South African Litigation Centre have joined the fray. Government is disputing that the application is urgent and said that the issue of withdrawal is due to serve before Parliament next year. It said the approval (for the withdrawal)&nbsp;is being sought&nbsp;and the necessary notices have already been given. But Budlender said the government cannot undo what has already been done. According to him only the court can now undue South Africa s withdrawal. According to him the matter is urgent as the withdrawal will come into effect on October 1 in 2017. This matter had to be concluded by then, he said, which included that the&nbsp; Constitutional Court&nbsp; will have to have the final say. He argued that by the time it did serve before Parliament, the latter should know the court s stance on the matter. Budlender made it clear that according to the DA, government cannot dictate to Parliament as to whether to withdraw from the Rome Statute or not. He said as long as the Implementation Act remained in place, government could not decide to withdraw from the ICC. He questioned why there was no consultative process prior to the executive suddenly announcing that&nbsp; South Africa&nbsp; was withdrawing from the ICC. There was no explanation given for withdrawal Why was it so urgent to withdraw on October 1 this year? There could have been a consultative process. Why the sudden withdrawal, Budlender asked. The legal arguments are expected to run into Tuesday, as the matter was set down for two days. [email&#160;protected] Pretoria News &nbsp;