Durban Come 2017 South Africans can expect a wave of positive change, and while things may get difficult, a fighting spirit will prevail.Durban tarot card reader Minaxie Gihwala, known as MG, consulted the tarot cards to see what s in store for South Africa in the coming year, and she said that overall things were looking good.Drawing several cards from her pack, they revealed the Sun, the 10 of cups, the wheel of fortune and the three of swords.MG said the set of cards meant there would be change in the country, sparked by the sacrifice of a leader , possibly referring to President Jacob Zuma stepping down, or being asked to step down, which would lead to a new start, referring to the sun. By mid-year we should see this change. South Africa is ripe and ready for a new start and the cards are showing this. But people will also have to rally together to initiate change, as Zuma will not step down willingly, said MG.By the end of 2017, things would be better in South Africa, she said, leading to more investment. When the change occurs, there may be some destabilisation for a little while, the rand may waver, but we mustn t worry because things will get better. The drought would break, and just across the border, in Zimbabwe, MG said, the cards revealed the energy of fire and ambition. We are seeing a stepping back of active leadership by Mugabe, so he will be hands off, and this is a good thing for the country and there will be opportunities for the people, she said.On other world leaders, MG said the cards warned countries, South Africa included, of the impact of US president-elect Donald Trump. We must not trust what he says and must be very cautious when dealing with him. He is not a man of honour. He is going to have a positive effect on the rand, but it means that within the US things may not be so good, she said.Most important, she said, was the spirit of South Africans. We may feel overburdened with price increases and the rand-dollar exchange rate at some points, but much like before, we will learn to survive, and we will be able to manage. 2016 has been a tough year, but I get a good feeling that 2017 will be a year we can get through. Independent on Saturday