Johannesburg - In yet another police killing, a Jeppe sergeant, identified as Andries Mabena was shot and killed following a business robbery on Tuesday. According to Gauteng police spokesperson Brigadier Mathapelo Peters, &nbsp;as part of a crime prevention operation, police were conducting vehicle-and foot-patrols with the station commander when they responded to information of a business robbery at a plastic shop. Sergeant Mabena and two police officers who were in a police vehicle, acted on the information and went into the shop where they viewed CCTV footage identifying two men. Later in the day, while the members were on patrol, they spotted the two men who matched the description of the suspects, Peters said. He said that two officers got out of the police vehicle and followed one of the suspects, while Mabena pursued the other suspect. This suspect fired shots at the sergeant, fatally wounding him on the left side of his upper chest. There have been no arrests at this stage. An investigation and search for the suspects is underway, Peters said. Gauteng police commissioner, Lieutenant General Deliwe De Lange has condemned the senseless killing of the sergeant. I am appealing to members of the public who may have any information that could lead to the arrest of the suspects, to come forward and contact the police on the 10111 SAPS emergency number, said De Lange. On Monday, a 35-year-old constable from Cape Town was gunned down outside his home in Kraaifontein, while on Sunday an officer was shot dead in Brown s Farm in Philippi. In a separate incident on Saturday, 41-year-old sergeant Thabisile Penelope Zondi was beaten to death by her boyfriend at her residence in Pietermaritzburg during the early hours of the morning. According to KwaZulu-Natal spokesperson, colonel Thembeka Mbhele, the couple had an alleged argument prior to her murder. The suspect severely assaulted the female officer with a pick handle multiple times all over her body. Upon arrival of police, the lifeless body of the female officer was found, she said A case of murder was opened and the woman s boyfriend was swiftly arrested. [email&#160;protected] @Lanc_02The Star