Kimberley The abandoned home of the sangoma in Phutanang was cleared of debris and rubble on Wednesday to allow SAPS forensic investigators to search the area for any human remains. They are expected to arrive from Pretoria on Thursday.This comes after Frank Magwadibane, the father of young Keitumetse, who went missing five months ago, unearthed hair and bones that resembled a small child s hands, in the yard about two weeks ago.The sangoma, Nora Mazibuko, along with co-accused Joseph Mgobo, Maruping Kgwebane and Clerance Mkhumto, were initially charged with kidnapping after Keitumetse never returned home from visiting a local tuckshop.Mazibuko s house was vandalised and torched as angry residents set it alight when the accused were released after the case was scrapped from the court roll last month.Residents in the area pointed out that the property should have been searched by the police sooner. Parts of the abandoned home of the sangoma, initially linked to the kidnapping of Keitumetsi was taken down. Picture: Danie van der Lith There were other people who last week dug further down the hole where the bones had been discovered and evidence could have been removed. Meanwhile Keitumetse s parents have called in the help of a local traditional healer.While Frank and Margaret Magwadibane, have lost all hope that their child might still be alive, they are desperate to find out what happened to her. She is all we can think about. We cannot rest until we have found her. Frank said that the traditional healer helped him in finding the hair and bones. I immediately gave it to the police so that it could be sent for DNA testing. The investigating officer told us that he took the bones to a witchdoctor who identified it as being the skeleton of a baboon. We are not happy because if the bones were not directly sent to the forensic laboratories for testing, the evidence could have been tampered with. The traditional healer was of the view that the bones that were found on the sangoma s property were human, Magwadibane said. We would like the DNA to be scientifically tested. The bones would never have been discovered had the ancestors not led us to it. Magwadibane claimed that the sangoma s house was a crime scene and should have been closed off to the public. He further alleged that the traditional healer stated that the bodies of two girls were buried on the property.In an interview with the DFA, the traditional healer said that she had also led the police to two graves near the sewage farm. I have sensed that witchcraft was involved in the deaths. I have also searched the veld and pools of water for Keitumetse. I believe that we will eventually find her. I feel the pain of the family and I am assisting them on a voluntary basis. Everyone who has assisted in the case is a hero and we will not rest until she is found. She, however, believed that not enough was being done to speed up the investigation. The police cannot afford to drag their feet. The entire community must be involved in this crusade. The traditional healer also said that an interdict as well as criminal charges that were brought against Margaret Magwadibane by a family member was an attempt to derail the quest to find the child. This alleged incident happened at least six months ago and Margaret is not a violent person. Threats were also made against me but I will not be deterred. Margaret appeared in the Galeshewe Magistrate s Court on Wednesday and was released on free bail. The case was postponed to January 24.Police spokersperson, Captain Sergio Kock, said she was arrested on a charge of intimidation on Wednesday. It is believed that the complainant in the intimidation case was questioned at the time of Keitumetse s disappearance.He was allegedly taken to a veld and interrogated about her whereabouts.Colonel Mohale Ramatseba indicated that police investigation was still continuing. It cannot be confirmed as yet if the remains, including some bones and hair that were collected, are that of a human being or an animal until tests have been conducted. Diamond Fields Advertiser