Durban - A Durban widow is devastated that her husband s headstone has been placed on the wrong grave in the Queensburgh cemetery. Thoko Shozi, from Klaarwater near Mariannhill, plan&shy;ned a headstone unveiling ceremony at her husband s grave. Themba Shozi died in September last year.The family had asked a relative to place the headstone, but said that when he went to the cemetery to get the grave number, he was given the incorrect number. The headstone was placed on the wrong grave. Due to work commitments, I was unable to go with (the relative). He asked for the plot number and was told it was 516. When the headstone was placed, he sent me a picture of the grave. My children and I saw it wasn t the right grave, said Shozi.She went to see for herself. When we got there, we could tell it wasn t the right grave. My husband s grave had a cross made of cement, which identified it, she said.The family asked cemetery workers for a plot map, which showed her husband was buried in plot 534. Staff told her to contact the manager, who, she said, told her she was at fault for not being present during the headstone placement. She said the manager also refused to move the headstone. I didn t think something like this could happen. The headstone cost me R13 500 and now my only option is to demolish it, she said.The head of eThekwini Parks and Recreation, Thembinkosi Ngcobo, said they were waiting for a letter of complaint from Shozi. We will decide on the next step based on the nature of the complaint. It is possible for grave numbers to get switched for several reasons. There are instances where storms or heavy rains rearrange plots and expose coffins or remains. Over the last few years, we ve faced a situation where some of our staff would illegally sell plots. In that case, official invoices are not used and therefore plots are not properly recorded. In some instances, some personnel will create their own plots, for instance, next to roads and servitude. In that case those sites are not recorded, he said.Shozi said the family planned to continue with the traditional ceremony this weekend, but without unveiling the headstone. Independent on Saturday