The late actor starred as Brian O'Conner in the action film franchise Fast and Furious, and tragically died at the age of 40 in 2013 after the Porsche Carrera GT he was driving in with his friend Roger Rodas who also died in the same incident crashed into a lamppost and burst into flames. READ: LISTEN: AKA drops new single Now, his colleagues have taken to social media on the three-year anniversary of his death to commemorate his life and pay their respects. A photo posted by Meadow Walker (@meadowwalker) on Sep 12, 2015 at 9:00am PDT Tyrese Gibson - who played Romance Pierce in '2 Fast 2 Furious' - hailed him the nicest person and asked people to pray for his family, including his brothers Cody, 28, and Caleb, 39, and his 18 year old daughter Meadow Walker. A video posted by TYRESE (@tyrese) on Nov 29, 2016 at 7:14pm PST Alongside a montage of photos of Paul posted on his Instagram, he wrote: "This week is always rough for those of us who really knew him personally 14 years of laugher, hugs and love literally one of the nicest people on HUMAN FEET!!!! Nov 30th we lost an angel! Paul treated everyone with the upmost respect and went out of his way to make everyone feel like they mattered...... I love and I miss you dearly . We simply ask of you prayer warriors around the world pray for his daughter our niece Meadow Walker and his dear brothers CODY and Caleb and parents and his Besty named Roland and Brandon who were literally with him everyday!!!!!! May God rest your soul we hope we make you proud everyday!!!!! RIH ( rest in heaven )..... P-Dubber!!!! (sic)" Gone but never forgotten. #love A photo posted by @ludacris on Nov 30, 2016 at 5:30am PST Rapper Ludacris who portrays Tej - also shared a touching tribute to Paul, sharing a photo of him from one of the car-based movies, with the text "Always in our hearts" written on it. The photo was captioned: "Gone but never forgotten. #love (sic)" A photo posted by jordanabrewster (@jordanabrewster) on Nov 30, 2016 at 8:04am PST And actress Jordan Brewster  who plays Mia Toretto shared a sweet picture of herself with the caption: "Love you forever, miss you forever (sic)" Vin Disel also paid his respects, opting to simply change his Facebook cover photo to an image of himself and Paul.