Tokyo - The Bank of Japan upgraded its assessment of the economy on Tuesday while keeping monetary policy unchanged in its first decision since Donald Trump s election victory.The central bank forecasts a moderate recovery trend to continue following a pickup in exports, an improvement in business sentiment and resilience in private consumption. However, inflation expectations remain in a weakening phase and risks to the outlook include developments in the Chinese and US economies, Brexit and geopolitical uncertainties.Most analysts had already adopted the view that the BOJ would stand pat in coming months&nbsp;with its targets for short- and long-term interest rates, even before Trump s election victory sent the yen tumbling, easing any pressure for additional action to stoke inflation. A majority of economists surveyed said they don t expect any additional easing before Governor Haruhiko Kuroda steps down in April 2018.&nbsp;Read also: Bank of Japan holds talks after BrexitThe focus for investors now moves to the BOJ s efforts to contain a surge in yields amid a global bond sell-off. The central bank s shift in policy framework in September to yield-curve control was meant to make its stimulus program more sustainable as it neared the practical limits of asset purchases. Kuroda is likely to field questions on this topic at a briefing later Tuesday.The Cabinet Office earlier Tuesday released upgrades for its estimates for the economy. Real gross domestic product will rise 1.5 percent in the next fiscal year starting April 1, nominal growth will increase to 2.5 percent and overall consumer prices will advance 1.1 percent, it said.Finance Minister Taro Aso confirmed that the government s initial budget for next year will be 97.5 trillion yen ($830 billion), an increase of 0.8 percent on the same figure this year. Like in 2016, the government is expected to follow up with supplementary budgets in 2017.The yen traded at 117.38 per dollar as of 12:36 p.m. after hitting a 10-month low last week. A weak yen generates inflationary pressures through higher import costs, while boosting corporate profits that could filter through to wage growth.Currency marketThe yen had gained about 13 percent this year before the US election, and has since tumbled about 10 percent. Credit Suisse Group AG last week revised down its three-month prediction for the dollar-yen rate to 122 from 111.The BOJ kept its rate on some bank reserves at -0.1 percent and reiterated its pledge to keep the yield on the 10-year Japanese government bond at around 0 percent. Both rates are core elements of the new framework it announced in September.Surging global yields are posing a challenge to the central bank. It conducted its first fixed-rate operation to contain rising yields last month, and it increased purchases during a bond-buying operation last week.Market participants are speculating that the BOJ will need to do more after the 10-year JGB yield hit 0.1 percent last week, a level seen by some as the upper limit of the central bank s tolerance. No need for more easing doesn t mean the BOJ is free from problems, said Naomi Muguruma, a senior market economist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities. They said they can control a bond market and the market is already giving them a challenge. Bloomberg