A long time coming… Suranga Lakmal played 31 Test matches before visiting Port Elizabeth for this Boxing Day Test. St George’s Park will, though, forever be etched in his memory, for it will always be the venue that the lanky seamer claimed his maiden five-wicket haul in Test cricket. Only former left-armer Nuwan Zoysa has taken longer to achieve the feat. Lakmal was certainly overjoyed when Keshav Maharaj edged behind to become his fifth scalp. A loud shriek that could be heard up in the press box confirmed it, while he also saluted the changing room, holding the ball aloft in celebration.  Don’t let Quinny review Quinton de Kock has requested some dubious review calls in the past, but none were as ridiculous as when he sent one upstairs off Kagiso Rabada’s bowling on Tuesday. The ball seamed back off a good length and Mathews shouldered arms to the delivery, which went through to De Kock. For some reason or other, the wicket-keeper believed it was worthy of a review. Television replays showed the ball had passed miles away from the bat and it was turned down. It still hasn’t been ascertained as to what exactly De Kock was appealing for. He should not be trusted with reviews in the future.  And don’t let Chandimal either Dinesh Chandimal’s review was certainly more out of desperation than anything else, for he was stone dead the moment the ball crashed into his pads. Vernon Philander managed to nip one back into the right-hander and the ball missed his front pad, only to ricochet into the back one instead. If it was a caught-behind, Chandimal would most likely have walked. Instead, he asked for a review, which only confirmed his fate in the most emphatic manner, with the ball taking out middle-stump halfway up.  Where did the ball go Abbo? Kyle Abbott had been superb all day. The right-arm seamer moved the ball both ways significantly, which caused the Sri Lankan batsmen all sorts of trouble. One delivery though would have not even troubled an under-10 batsman. In fact, it would not have caused any batsman harm as it never actually landed on the pitch, but rather at wide mid-off. Due to the intense humidity, Abbott lost control of the ball in his delivery stride for it to slip out of his greasy palms and fly off to the right. Slip fielders Dean Elgar and Faf du Plessis could not contain their laughter and literally fell to the floor in amusement.  Student v Master Keshav Maharaj had spoken prior to the Test match of his adoration for Sri Lankan left-arm spinner Rangana Herath, and how he wanted to learn from the veteran. It is unlikely that Herath is going to impart any of his vast knowledge now, especially after Maharaj trapped him lbw on Tuesday. Truth be told, Herath only had himself to blame for his awful attempted reverse-sweep, with the ball cannoning into his pads.  zaahier.adams@inl.co.za  Independent Media