Cape Town is abuzz with rugby action this week in the build-up to the highly-anticipated Cape Town Sevens. If you’re attending the event, make sure you know all the ins and outs of what will be happening on Saturday and Sunday.  Is it really sold out? Yes, all tickets for the event are sold out.  Where can I park? The best place to park would be in the CBD (south of Buitengracht Street) and then to take a free shuttle to the Stadium from the Civic Centre or Thibault Square stations. There will be no public parking available at Cape Town Stadium and exiting from other parking facilities close to the venue will take a lot of time at the end of play on each day.  Are any roads closed? Granger Bay Blvd Vlei Road Fritz Sonnenberg Road  Can I use public transport to get there? MyCiti Bus will be servicing free rides from the Civic Centre and Thibault Square Station to the Cape Town Stadium and back. Please present your match day ticket in order to access this free service.  The first bus will depart from the Civic Centre at 09h00 and the last bus departs from the Stadium at 21h15. Normal MyCiti services can however only be accessed with the MyConnect card, where standard fare applies.  What about the children? SA Rugby Kiddies Village will be running from 11h00 to 19h00 on both days of the tournament. Entrance is free for all children between the ages of two up to and including 10.  What if I run out of cash? ATM machines will be stationed on the stadium concourse.  What about food and drinks? Food Lovers Market SAB Castle Lager Beer Garden Variety of food trucks selling snacks and non-alcoholic beverages And if I don’t want to dress fancy? There will be two retail stalls selling Cape Town Sevens rugby merchandise – situated inside the concourse area.  What’s NOT allowed into the stadium? Any food or beverages bought outside Any musical instruments (such as vuvuzelas) Any illegal substances Fire arms and other weapons Fire works Umbrellas  General information: Gates open every morning at 09h00 Day one - first pool match kicks off at 10h15 and the last match at 19h56 Day two - first knock-out match kicks off at 10h36 and the Cup final will start at 19h30 Trophy presentation at 20h00 What time do the Blitzboks play on Saturday? 12h49 against Russia (match 8) 16h10 against USA (match 16) 19h56 against Australia (match 24, final encounter of the day)  What other entertainment can we expect? Saturday: Black Ties (13h31) Battle of the DJ’s (18h24)  Sunday: Cape Town’s Finest (13h38)