The December school holidays are upon us, meaning long lazy days spent outdoors at the beach or pool.  But it’s not all fun and games. According to the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI), about 600 children in South Africa die from drowning every year.  It’s a sobering fact, and one that parents shouldn’t take lightly.  Here are a few things to keep in mind…   Keep your eyes and ears open  You need to be mindful of where your children are at all times. Don’t take it for granted even if they know how to swim – accidents can happen in a matter of seconds.  Public areas like beaches and public pools are overcrowded during the holiday periods, so when arriving, pick a spot that gives you a view of the entire area.  The No. 1 rule to remember – never turn your back on swimming kids, even if it’s in the safety of your home.  Lifeguards are there for a reason  Overcrowding at the beach is a reality that we all have to live with – unless you’re lucky enough to have access to a private beach.  But for the rest of us, obey instructions from the lifeguard and only let your kids swim in demarcated areas. Rip tides are an unseen danger and are one of the biggest contributors to beach drownings. The same goes for shark sightings. That’s why it’s important to keep an eye on the lifeguard from time to time.   Safety first  Always take extra precautions, especially with kids that cannot swim. Arm band floaters are a good start for those just learning to swim. Polly otters, even though a bit pricey, are an excellent investment for smaller children.  Ask yourself if worst comes to worst:  Do I know how to do CPR?  Do I have a first aid kit handy?  Do I know where the closest emergency room is?   Cover up  Yes, that two-piece bikini looks really cute on your toddler, but that means slapping on sunscreen every half hour. To ensure optimum cover from harmful UV rays, spend a little extra on wetsuits and purchase a sunscreen with the highest SPF protection. It should be applied 30 minutes before and after sun exposure.  According to skincancer.org, the best sunscreen has SPF 50 and is water-resistant. Also, when out of the water, make sure their heads are protected with wide-brim hats.   Teach them the basics  Drum into them the essential rules when close to the water:  No running close to the pool  No diving into an unknown water source  Never go into the water if an adult isn’t close by  If they get lost, do they know your cellphone no. and street address?   Shocking statistics show that drowning remains one of the top causes of unnatural childhood deaths in SA. That’s why it’s so important to make pool and beach safety a priority this festive season. Just be safe and be alert!   What to pack for a beach day  Plenty of liquids to keep hydrated  Healthy snacks filled with slow-releasing energy like bananas and cherries Pack healthy snacks filled with slow-releasing energy like bananas and cherries. Picture: Jennifer Bruce  Soothing after-sun lotion  First-aid kit consisting of: first-aid manual, bandages in different sizes, antiseptic wipes, plasters, sterile gauze pads and soap.  Have emergency numbers saved onto your phone  Extra set of clothes, including sun hats  Two sets of towels for each child  Wet wipes for little spills   How to prevent sunburn  It’s extremely important to use sunscreen, even on cloudy days. Children especially are prone to sunburn, and with that increased chance of skin cancer.  We know it’s hard trying to explain why they can’t be outdoors between 10am and 4pm, so minimise their exposure to the sun by encouraging them to cover up and use sunscreen generously.   If they do suffer from sunburn, WikiHow suggests using aloe vera gel as a natural alternative to over-the-counter products.  Independent Media