Durban - As Durbanites and holidaymakers are enjoying the festive season, many families are mourning the loss of loved ones through road accidents.A 68-year-old Mid Illovo grandfather in Mkhambathini Local Municipality is faced with raising five grandchildren on a pensioner s salary following the death of his son and daughter-in-law in a car crash in Umbumbulu recently.The tragedy continued for Michael Nene as his wife Constance died three days after they had buried their son, 35-year-old Vezokuhle, and his wife, Londiwe, 31. She just couldn t take it. The death of her son and his wife was too much for her. She had not been herself from the day the news broke. It is too much for me too because now I am left with raising five grandchildren on a pension. I never thought that at my old age, life would be so cruel, said Nene. His son, daughter-in-law and his one-year-old grandson were returning from KwaMashu when a vehicle crashed into their car on the R603 in Umbumbulu. My son was trapped under the steering wheel, his wife was thrown out of the car. Both died at the scene. Two occupants of the other vehicle also died. My grandson was found by a passing motorist who took him to hospital after calling the police, Nene said.He said the couple s car was packed with umbondo (gifts, including groceries and clothing items, traditionally brought to the in-laws by the bride).As the family was mourning the death of the young couple, Mkhize s wife had battled to come to terms with the loss. My daughter-in-law stayed here at home with us. My other son has his own place away from us and the other one is not established yet. My wife never stopped crying since the day of the accident. She kept asking why she had not died in their place. On Wednesday, she gave up on life. She was not sick. She was in pain and heartbroken, and she died. We buried her today (on Sunday) and last Sunday we buried my son and his wife, he said.Mkhambathini Mayor Erik Ngcongo, who attended the funeral on Sunday, said the Nene family needed emotional support from the community. I may be a politician, but what happened to this family is unbearable to handle without the support of the community. No one deserves to go through such a heart-breaking experience alone, said Ngcongo. Provincial police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said a case of culpable homicide was under investigation.Meanwhile, 11 people were injured on Saturday afternoon when a taxi hit a tractor and trailer on the Baynesfield Farm road, outside Pietermaritzburg, ER24 spokesman Russel Meiring said.One person died and 11 others, including three children, were injured after two vehicles collided at the corner of Stalwart Simelane (Stanger) Street and Sandile Thusi (Argyle) Road on Saturday evening.Over the long weekend 144 motorists were arrested for various road transgressions around the province.Of these, 84 were for drunken driving, with 43 occurring in the Pietermaritzburg CBD alone.MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison Mxolisi Kaunda hailed the arrests.He said an operation blocked all the major points in Pietermaritzburg. Similar operations were also held in Durban s busiest streets, including Florida and Umgeni roads.Since Thursday, KwaZulu-Natal roads had begun experiencing high volumes of traffic. The Mariannhill Toll Plaza had at one point recorded an average 2 000 vehicles an hour. Traffic volumes are expected to increase this week. We are, so far, impressed with the high level of visibility of enforcement agencies throughout major corridors in the province. We applaud the good work by all agencies. Road safety is everybody s responsibility, so let s all unite and fight the scourge of road crashes and fatalities, said Kaunda in a statement.Road Traffic Management Corporation spokesperson, Simon Zwane said the highest speed recorded on the N2, near Ifafa, was 172km/* in a 120km zone. The driver was arrested and released on bail of R1 000. Daily News