Johannesburg - Steinhoff International Holdings and Shoprite Holdings' share prices slid more than 7 percent on the JSE on Wednesday after the companies said they were in merger talks to combine their African operations.The companies did not disclose the value of the deal. The merged company, to be called Retail Africa, is expected to be the continent s largest retailer with an annual turnover of R200 billion, employing 186 000 people. Shoprite will issue new ordinary shares to Steinhoff that will give what is one of the world s biggest furniture retailers a significant stake in Shoprite.The deal will result in Shoprite acquiring Steinhoff s clothing chains, which include Pep, Ackermans, Shoe City and Tekkie Town in exchange for shares. Shoprite will also buy the furniture and appliance retailers that Steinhoff owns via JD Group. These include Russells, Bradlows, Rochester, Incredible Connection, Hi-fi Corporation and Sleepmasters.The enlarged business might ultimately come under Steinhoff s control through a share swop, the companies said. Talks between the companies were initiated and facilitated by their two biggest shareholders - Wiese and South Africa s state-owned Public Investment Corporation, which manages state pensions - the retailers saidThe companies revealed that the merger was supported by the two largest shareholders of both companies, the PIC and Titan Premier Investments Proprietary, a company controlled by a family trust of Christo Wiese.Wiese, South Africa s third-richest person with a net worth of $6.3 billion (R85.80 billion), is the biggest shareholder in both Shoprite and Steinhoff. He holds 16 percent of Shoprite and 18 percent of Steinhoff. If the companies finally merge it would pull together his retail assets under one roof following Steinhoff s acquisition in 2014 for nearly $6 billion of Wiese s budget clothing retailer Pepkor, creating a global giant worth around R400 billion.Read also: Steinhoff, Shoprite in talksWiese had said the merger between the companies had been on the table since 2006. However, the rumours got louder in September. The companies said the value for Steinhoff Africa Retail would be negotiated, taking into account the best interests of both Steinhoff and Shoprite shareholders.The proposed transaction is expected to position the combined businesses of Retail Africa as the leading multi-format discount retailer on the African continent.The announcement comes just one month after Shoprite s founder and long-time chief execuitve, Whitey Basson, said he would retire, leading Wiese to say the retailer was at a crossroads .Retail Africa, locally bred, will have the required size and scale to compete with any other international retailer.Evan Walker, a portfolio manager at 36ONE Asset Management, said the details of the deal were not clear yet, as little information had been released by the companies. He said both businesses had done well in the past 15 years operating separately. The merger doesn t make sense to me at all. There is no strategic rationale or benefits to be derived for combining the two businesses. Each business can operate on its own and they don t need each other, said Walker.Read also: Wiese: Steinhoff, Shoprite tie-up 'natural'Damon Buss, an equity analyst at Electus Fund Managers, said: We think there are minimal synergies that could be extracted by combining a food retailer and a furniture/clothing retailer, given the disparity of products and supply chains, combined with the fact that both Shoprite and Steinhoff are already efficiently run businesses. Hence combining the businesses is unlikely to create an entity that is greater than the sum of its parts. This is Christo Wiese looking to organise assets, and having Shoprite and Steinhoff assets in one entity in Africa is plus, said Sasha Naryshkine, an analyst at money manager Vestact. This will be one of the biggest, if not the biggest, retail companies in Africa, with fingers in lots of pies. This deal has been rumoured for a while though and the speculation has always been that Christo Wiese wants to move the majority of his wealth to a European entry point, Bradley Preston, a fund manager at Mergence Asset Managers, said. Investors gave the planned union a cool reception.Shoprite shares closed 7.17 percent down at R178.97 on the JSE yesterday, while Steinhoff shares were 7.11 percent down to close at R70.58.BUSINESS REPORT