Cape Town Belgravia Road in Athlone has become a hotspot for druggies and prostitutes, according to the Athlone Community Policing Forum.And some of the teenage girls selling their bodies on the busy road are just 14 years old, said Athlone CPF chairperson Aziza Kannemeyer.Her revelation comes shortly after police arrested three young men at a popular roadhouse in Belgravia Road, for being in possession of dagga.Cops nabbed the trio in the parking lot of Wembley Roadhouse on Saturday, and Kannemeyer said drug use and prostitution was nothing new there. Wembley Roadhouse s parking lot is a popular hangout for our young people. But now, besides the drugs, there are also prostitutes standing on almost every street corner of Belgravia Road, she said. They all have different reasons for doing what they do; some to put bread on the table, to support their families or to support their drug habits. It is very sad, Kannemeyer added.On Monday afternoon, the Daily Voice spoke to a sex worker who said she s been operating opposite Wembley Roadhouse for more than a year because there s a lot of customers .The pretty girl claims she s 16 years old, and was dressed in just a bra and tiny shorts.She had a backpack on her back, containing a black shirt and pants. Her family, from Athlone, thinks she works in retail. I have a child who is almost two years old, and working in a shop just did not bring in enough cash, she said. &quot;My child s father is in jail for murder and nobody wants to help me.&quot;She said she earns anything from R60 to R300 for services like handjobs, blowjobs, front and back, and threesomes. The Wembley customers get their food and drive straight to me, sometimes I also get a dite . Kannemeyer blames a spike in drug-related crimes over the last two months for the explosion of sex workers in Belgravia Road. The girls range from 14 to 16 years old. Our current patrols and the extra police covering the area over the festive season help to lessen the impact of prostitution and drug-related crime in the area, said Kannemeyer.Provincial spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Andr&egrave; Traut confirmed the arrest of three men, aged 19, 21 and 25, at Wembley Roadhouse on Saturday at 7pm. [Members] searched [their] vehicle and found dagga and arrested the men on the charges of possession of drugs. They appeared in the Athlone Magistrates Court on Monday, Traut said.Wembley big boss Mujeeb Gangraker admits drug and alcohol use has become a problem on their premises, and said he was happy cops are doing more patrols. Daily Voice