Johannesburg - Although Kingsmead College head girl Amy Stessl is unsure about what her future holds, one thing she knows is that music will always be a part of her life.Stessl started playing the recorder when she was 5 years old before migrating to the flute. She s never looked back. (Music) just became my passion. I just love music lessons. Kingsmead has allowed me to hone in on that passion. I d definitely love to continue it into my future, she told The Star.The teen has a string of music-related achievements to boast about. She recently won the Unisa South African Music Scholarship Competition. She also won the award for the best performance of a romantic work, as well as best performance of a work by a South African composer.She has competed in several national competitions, has numerous accolades to her name including winner of the wind category of the Roedean Music Competition twice and most promising flautist at the SASMT Festival.Nationally, she has played in the Stellenbosch Festival Symphony Orchestra, the National Youth Orchestra, National Concert Orchestra, and the MIAGI Youth Orchestra, with which she toured to Europe. Amy has also performed as a soloist with the Rand Symphony Orchestra and the KZN Philharmonic Orchestra in their respective youth concerto festivals.Kingsmead College director of arts Elsab&eacute; Fourie said: Despite her extraordinary dedication to music, Amy has participated in other activities and remained a role model at Kingsmead. Stessl is unsure of what she wants to do after school, but is considering music. I m definitely applying to study music. I m looking at overseas universities, but obviously scholarships are quite hard to get. I m looking into the engineering side and maybe medicine because I love maths and science. I m basically taking a gap year next year and will then decide from there. I think it ll be an interesting time in my life and probably the only time that I really have to reflect. Stessl s school has hailed her as an asset.She is Gold President Award winner and the school s Dux scholar. She was the recipient of the Claire Unger Memorial Award for demonstrating character and true leadership. Her characteristic thirst for knowledge, enquiring mind and innate talent have enabled her to excel in all she undertakes, said Kingsmead College headmistress Lisa Kaplan.Stessl took eight subjects and obtained distinctions in all. She was yesterday enjoying a break in Knysna with her family after a productive December. She made sure not to think too much about the the results. I did the best I could. &nbsp;The Star