Durban Two National Freedom Party (NFP) senior leaders were booted out of the party after they were found guilty of failing to execute their tasks, the party s acting national chairman, Bheki Gumbi, said on Wednesday.Professor Nhlanhla Khubisa, NFP s secretary-general, and national chairman Maliyakhe Shelembe s membership were suspended for 10 years after the party s failure to participate in the recent municipal elections. Between November 17 and December 23, there was a disciplinary hearing into the matter and all the evidence says the two men are guilty of failing to execute their duties. They were party representatives at the IEC s Party Liaison Committee (PLC) when a timetable in preparation for the elections was adopted. They knew the deadline for the payment of the registration fee. They are the ones who had first-hand information about decisions taken at the PLC. When the decision was taken on December 23, they were told that they were no longer to engage on party affairs for 10 years, said Gumbi.He said the two were to vacate their parliamentary seats since they were no longer party representatives, and that a letter to the parliamentary Speaker Baleka Mbete to inform her of the party decision, would be sent soon.When the NFP approached the courts in July to have its disqualification lifted and to be allowed to pay the registration fee to participate in the elections, their attempt was unsuccessful. The appeal was unsuccessful solely because we were represented at the PLC when decisions were taken. We had our own members there, but for some reason they decided to do nothing, and that s why we were not part of the elections, he said.He said failing to pay the registration fee was a plan to destroy the NFP. We are still investigating why they did this to the party, and who the kingpin was. Disqualification from the elections cost the party about R36million in contributions from its 227 councillors. Each member contributed 15% of their salaries towards the party s purse. Gumbi added: We are aware of their appeal, but it is yet to be decided if it had gone through the proper channels. It is the National Working Committee (NWC) that has the mandate to take appeals to the National Appeals Committee (NAC). If an appeal doesn t go to the NWC, then it can t go to the NAC. The two members represented the party in the IEC s PLC and on May 23, when the election timetable was adopted, they were supposed to report back to structures and pay the registration. They kept information to themselves, and the fee was not paid, and we were kicked out of the race, said Gumbi.In a joint statement on Wednesday, Khubisa and Shelembe confirmed attending the hearing and receiving letters suspending their membership. We have raised objections on a number of issues and we have appealed the 10-year suspension on December 23, a day after receiving the letters. The party must hold the appeal within 10 days from the date of receipt of the appeal, so internal processes have not been exhausted, reads the statement.They berated Gumbi for speaking to the media without reading the constitution to understand that internal processes have not been exhausted . He is salivating, he wants to be in Parliament and that s why he is oblivious to the fact that internal processes have not been concluded. Political analyst Protas Madlala said if the two leaders were proved to be responsible for the party s election woes, then they deserved to be punished. In any way, I don t think they will find a party when they come back in 10 years. It will take less than 10 years for the NFP to disappear from the political scene, said Madlala.Daily News