More people can now enjoy the experience of having their own freshly baked cakes and pastries in the comfort of their homes, writes Megan Baadjies Deeghuys, the global pioneer in frozen convenience baking, opened its 22nd store in Paarl in the Western Cape this past week. What is Deeghuys you may ask? In the words of its founder and director, Michael van Niekerk: “It’s not a bakery, it’s not a supermarket, and it’s not a coffee shop. It’s something unique; it’s a Deeghuys!” The company specialises in creating and selling a wide range of frozen dough-based food products, which customers can conveniently bake at home. Their range of frozen, ready made products include chocolate and plain croissants, pies, cake and cup cake batters, rolls, bagels, pizza bases and even raw or par baked vetkoek.They also have their own range of yoghurt and ice cream. Deeghuys even stocks frozen gourmet cakes which lasts up to a year in the freezer. "The cakes are in a foamalite dough and you can keep it in the freezer for a year," Michael says. "You can take it home and eat it after six months if you want. Just take it out of the freezer, let it stand for an hour to an hour and a half and when you cut it, it will still be fresh." Deeghuys also has their version of a frozen cinnamon bun, which is perfect for when you are running late and you don’t have time to make breakfast. You simply take the bun directly from the freezer into the microwave for 45 seconds and it’s ready to eat. It even comes with its own cream cheese sauce. Michael says Deeghuys' aim is to make the customers lives easier by providing a convenient way to have high quality, freshly baked food at home. “The concept is so unique. We want to remind people about the simple pleasures of baking at home. Many people might have forgotten this because of the busy lives we live, but we want to bring this joyful, inclusive experience back into the homes of South Africans by breaking the rules of traditional baking and enabling anyone to be able to make gourmet food in their own kitchen." Each of the products comes with the baking instructions on the wrapper. “If you want to have croissants for breakfast you simply take it out of the freezer, let it thaw, spray your baking tray and leave it in the oven until it’s ready to bake in the morning,” Michael adds. Deeghuys also has a FTO, or freezer to oven, range of products which is perfect for guesthouses, restaurants or if you just don’t have the time or patience to defrost. “The FTO products can go directly from the freezer to the oven, you don’t need to thaw it out,” Michael says. “Our FTO products are more convenient for guesthouses and coffee shops or restaurants where they might not have enough time, whereas in a household you can buy the normal ones and just take it out the night before. “The products you need to thaw and rise (before baking) are a bit more airy but it depends on your preference,” he says. Their range of pastries include apple and custard danishes as well as chocolate flavoured cocktail danishes. “We also have the Copenhagen, which you also thaw out and let it rise then you bake it, Michael says. "We have the muffin and cup cake batters, and cream cheese for toppings as well. "We also have ready made cupcakes. "Just squeeze it in a muffin or cupcake pan and that’s it, it’s already mixed you just defrost. "We also have pre-fried doughnuts that you also just take out and defrost, it’s already made. "There is frozen milk tart and our very popular apple slab which is like an apple strudel, you just pop in the oven and bake," he says. They also stock frozen pancakes, scones, malva and chocolate pudding, cookie dough as well as sponge cakes. "We also have the sponge sheets which is great for parties," Michael says. "You can defrost and decorate it yourself and it's ready to eat. "It's perfect for children's parties. "Our speciality is frozen products but we do sell finished products as well," Michael says. There is also a variety of ready made meals which include butter chicken, chicken ala king, cottage pies and lasagne. "Everything we sell is our product, its our recipe and we make it ourselves. The only thing that we don’t make is the Coke," Michael laughs. The new Deeghuys store is located in at 376 Main Road, Paarl in the Jock de Villiers Building and can be contacted directly on (021) 870 1604.