First Test, Day 3, Stumps  South Africa: 286 & 351/5 (Cook 117, Elgar 52, Amla 48)  Sri Lanka: 205  South Africa lead by 432 runs   Port Elizabeth - There is a somewhat eerie similarity between the Boxing Day Tests going on in Port Elizabeth and Melbourne. Rain has, of course, interrupted both Test matches but there’s a story to be told about the openers Stephen Cook and David Warner too.  Although complete contrasts in character and style, Warner averaged 24.22 in Tests at the MCG, which is easily his worst Test venue in Australia, with the left-hander yet to reach three figures at the Coliseum prior to the on-going Test against Pakistan.   Equally, South Africa’s Stephen Cook – by his own admission – has not enjoyed a fruitful first-class career at St George’s Park averaging just 15.83. And as luck would have it, both openers survived clear chances on Wednesday to register superb centuries at their supposed “bogey” grounds.   “I think there were only two grounds (in South Africa) on my list to tick off and this is probably the ground where I’ve had the poorest first-class record at. I think I’ve only got one fifty before the Test match here. Craig Govender at the Lions, he likes to bring out some arb stats and he sent me a message after the 59 in the first innings that ‘I thought you were on for it’ and I am glad I could repay some of that faith,” Cook said at the close after his career best 117 (178 balls, 11 fours).   It was not just the Highveld Lions’ statistician Cook was repaying, but also the national selectors who stuck with him during a tough period in Australia where the experienced opener often looked all at sea until the final Test at the Adelaide Oval where he struck what was arguably a career-saving century.   Those troubles now look light years away as he brought up his third century in just seven Tests and is fast developing into the stabilising factor at the top of the order South Africa are desperately craving for. Cook’s partnership with fellow opener Dean Elgar (52 off 102 balls) is also blossoming into a really promising one with the duo registering their second consecutive century partnership in this Test. It was only the 10th time that the same pair has achieved this feat in a single Test.   “It was very nice to bat with Dean for a period of time. In our previous outings we have kind of dovetailed, with one of us scoring runs and the other hasn’t. It has been nice in this Test match to get a partnership going which helps the team a lot,” Cook said.   “Australia was very tough and I spoke a bit about it over there and the hardships I went through before getting that hundred in Adelaide. I am not saying it’s easier now because Test match cricket is Test match cricket, but I was probably a bit more relaxed in this Test coming off a hundred and feeling a little bit better about how things are going. The few weeks off also allowed some time to make a few technical changes that made a bit of a difference.”   The significance of the partnership was though of greater value than purely statistical benefit as it allowed the home side to build on their 81-run lead – courtesy of a Vernon Philander’s 11th Test five-for in the morning – without too many alarms. Through further contributions from Hashim Amla too, the lead has now swelled to 432 already and captain Faf du Plessis, who is at the crease, is now in the comfortable position of choosing when he wants to enforce the declaration with two days still remaining.   Although there are ominous dark clouds about and there were already some interruptions due to a couple of cloud bursts on Wednesday, Du Plessis might just want to give the likes of Philander and Abbott a little bit more time to rest before attacking the Sri Lankan batsmen with the new ball.   If South Africa’s new ball pair is in any way as effective as they were yesterday morning, then the target should already be too stiff for the visiting team. Philander, in particular, was sensational from the very first ball that he delivered and continued throughout a short spell. Not to be outdone, Abbott finished off the job with an equally good delivery.   “We haven’t spoken about it (the declaration) as a team yet. I think the fact that we scored at 4.4 runs per over has set us to declare when we want to. I am sure the guys will have discussions overnight about where and when that has to happen, but we still have to play well to bowl them out again,” Cook said.  Independent Media