Wellington There's nothing flashy about Bill English. Critics say the former finance minister and farmer who became New Zealand's prime minister on Monday is downright boring. But English hopes his steadiness and experience in handling the economy will prove reassuring when New Zealanders go to the polls next year.For the past eight years, the 54-year-old has played the role of dependable deputy to the more charismatic John Key. And it seemed it would stay that way heading into the 2017 election, until Key shocked the nation last week by resigning.English was chosen as the new leader by the conservative National Party caucus after two other candidates for the job withdrew last week.A practicing Roman Catholic, English is more conservative than Key on social issues. He is opposed to abortion and euthanasia, although he said Monday that he's changed his mind on gay marriage, which he voted against when it was legalized in New Zealand three years ago.&quot;Just seeing the impact it's had with couples, I think it doesn't erode marriage,&quot; he said. &quot;In some ways, it's an affirmation of the concept.&quot;English said he won't use his new role to try to influence policy on such issues, which are often left to the conscience of individual lawmakers rather than voted on by party affiliation.In some ways, English embodies the qualities that many New Zealanders value, casting himself as a down-to-earth rural bloke, a father-of-six who believes in hard work and steps into the limelight with some reluctance.But his history is more complicated. He studied commerce and then literature at university, graduating with an honors degree. He did work briefly as a farmer but has been a politician for most of his career, after he was first elected to Parliament 26 years ago.He rose to become leader of his party in 2001 and led them to a disastrous defeat in an election the following year. The National Party gained just 21 percent of the vote, its worst-ever showing.After he was replaced as leader in 2003, it seemed his star had faded. But he learned from that defeat, he said.This time, he has his economic record to highlight. After becoming finance minister in 2008, English helped the nation weather the global downturn and has since helped return annual GDP growth to more than 3 percent and unemployment to below 5 percent.He's put a lot of emphasis on getting the government books into shape and has managed to return small budget surpluses over the past couple of years. His economic platform remains more prudent than exciting.&quot;In the coming months and years we will focus on building the roads, public transport, schools and houses needed to support a strong economy and a growing population,&quot; English said. &quot;We'll also focus on better incomes for households, safer communities, and smarter government support for the most vulnerable.&quot;One of his biggest challenges will be curbing runaway house prices which have made it difficult for working families to buy homes, especially in the biggest city, Auckland.English will also find it hard to emulate his predecessor's ability to charm other leaders and elevate New Zealand's role in world affairs. Key played golf with President Barack Obama and helped New Zealand secure a temporary seat on the U.N. Security Council.&quot;We've had a period of a good relationship between John Key and President Obama, and that's now changed,&quot; English said. &quot;As a small country, we have to do all of the work.&quot;Key, who said he wanted to leave while he was on top of his game and spend more time with his family, said he didn't expect English would travel much next year as he focused domestically on the election. But Key said English would build relationships over time and already had a good international reputation as finance minister.Key departed with his party doing far better in opinion polls that the main opposition, the liberal Labour Party. But his opponents have been buoyed by Key's resignation.Labour Party leader Andrew Little said English had &quot;basked in John Key's fame and glory&quot; and doesn't represent the change that New Zealanders want or need.&quot;It's not right in a country like New Zealand that thousands of young couples can't afford to buy their first home,&quot; he said. &quot;It's not right that thousands of elderly people who need hospital care turn up to their hospital and get told the hospital can't afford to treat them.&quot;Here's a glance at English's life:Born Dec. 30, 1961 (aged 54). Simon William &quot;Bill&quot; English was raised on a farm near Dipton, which has population of about 150, on the South Island.EDUCATIONHead boy at St. Patrick's College, Silverstream, a Roman Catholic high school near Wellington.Completed a Bachelor of Commerce degree at the University of Otago, and a Bachelor of Arts degree, with honors, in English literature at Victoria University of Wellington.FAMILYMarried to Dr. Mary English, a general practitioner. They have six adult children.Says his Catholic faith is an influence but doesn't define him. Opposes abortion and euthanasia. Voted against same-sex marriage but says he now supports it.POLITICAL HISTORYFirst elected to the Parliament in 1990 as the member for the Wallace electorate, later renamed Clutha-Southland.Leader of the National Party from October 2001 to October 2003. Led the party to its worst-ever defeat in the 2002 election.Became finance minister and deputy prime minister in 2008, when Key became prime minister.POLICIESHas pledged to use budget surpluses to cut taxes, spend more on infrastructure and pay down government debt.Says he's not bound by Key's pledge to keep the age at which people can receive a government pension at 65. Some people say the age should be raised to reflect an aging population which is working longer.Says he supports the British monarchy and has no timetable for New Zealand to become a republic. Says any constitutional change would need to be driven by the people.AP