Johannesburg - A smear campaign meant to assassinate their characters. That s how brothers Dane and Bastiat Viljoen and colleague Karel Potgieter describe their alleged involvement in the theft of valuable assets at Blyvoor mine. There is absolutely no truth to these allegations, they told the Saturday Star this week. The trio say they have no doubt the police s case probing their alleged theft will be dismissed. They have given detailed affidavits to police that lucidly disproves the spurious allegations .Their conduct, they say, advanced the best interests of the companies in question and Richard Floyd and mining veteran Peter Skeat, chairman of Randlord, were aware of our actions . A minimal amount of money was raised through the sale of scrap metal and the funds so generated were used to pay expenses related to the No. 5 shaft and the metallurgical plant, especially in respect of labourer wages and site petty cash. In court papers lodged last month, they claim that during meetings with Floyd and Skeat, we discussed the marketability of the 5 shaft and the metallurgical plant to potential investors. As a result of illegal mining activities at the site, the sites were in a poor state. The offices and buildings had been plundered and scrap material was scattered over the site . They trio have launched a further high court application to protect us against the oppressive conduct by the majority shareholder We are shareholders and directors and have built the company from scratch over the past five years. We have invested our lives into building this dream Over the past year, now that the company has reached a marketable value, we ve been systematically marginalised.&quot;Peter and Richard have tried to hijack the company by systematically trying to dilute our shareholding. We remain open for a sensible settlement to avoid any further damage to the public image of the company. The assets and rights of the Blyvoor mine vest in Blyvoor Gold Capital and Blyvoor Gold Operation. We still comprise the majority of the board and have succeeded in preventing our attempted removal through a high court case. &nbsp;Saturday Star