Judges must grapple with the question of how to uncover the truth about State of Capture, writes Mcebisi Ndletyana. True to form, President Jacob Zuma has taken the State of Capture report for a judicial review. He bases his objection on constitutional grounds. In recommending that a judicial commission be appointed, the president tells us, the former public protector, Thuli Madonsela, acted unconstitutionally. In recommending that a judicial commission be appointed, the president tells us, the former public protector, Thuli Madonsela, acted unconstitutionally. She not only sought to usurp presidential powers, but also to dilute the authority of the office of the public protector (OPP). Effectively, the president says he s rising in defence of the constitution against Madonsela whose recommendations, were they to be followed, would denigrate both the presidency and the OPP.For someone of his record, Zuma s argument is obviously ironical. He purports to be a constitutionalist, while painting Madonsela as the offender. Ridiculous as Zuma s argument sounds, the president still managed to make points that are worth probing. This is an apt case to illuminate the pitfalls of the naivety that guided the drafters of our constitution.They conceded more powers to the president over the representative and collective body that is Parliament. According to Dikgang Moseneke, former deputy chief justice, this was informed by an assumption the presidency would always be occupied by a virtuous figure, deferring to institutions in order to enhance their supremacy.The gist of Zuma s argument, therefore, is not entirely wrong. What interests me is not only the constitutional principles that the president raises, but also how he has written his affidavit. Almost a third of the submission focuses on the process followed by Madonsela in compiling her report. While the president provides useful details about his interactions with Madonsela, his intention though is really to inform us she treated him unfairly. That s what explains his assertion the public protector finalised the report without any input from me .Yet, despite dedicating 9 pages of the 37-paged report to this, the purported unfairness does not form the basis of the review. This is not an oversight. It is simply that the claim doesn t hold. As the president himself tells us in his review submission, he was given several opportunities to respond to the allegations. On October 1 2016, for instance, he admits to receiving more details on the investigations and the allegations levelled against me in order to adequately prepare for the meeting . That meeting took place on October 6 2016. But, instead of answering questions, Zuma asked for a postponement so he could be provided with the relevant documents and records and where necessary be allowed to question the persons who had provided information to the office of the public protector .In other words, before Madonsela completed her report on October 14 2016, Zuma had 13 days to make an input to the public protector. He knew of the allegations even before Madonsela started her formal investigation in April 2016.The reason for wanting more time, as the president explained, was that Madonsela s questions were varied and required more extensive information from me. Also, some of the information required from me dates back to 2009 and would require me to first establish what transpired before I am able to meaningfully answer the questions . But did it really require more than 10 days to remember if he had called Themba Maseko instructing him to help out the Guptas; or meeting Vytyie Mentor at the Gupta residence, where she complained to him about one of the brothers offering her a ministerial post?Zuma appears to have simply not wanted to respond to Madonsela s questions. And, he knew telling the court he was not afforded sufficient time to respond would be exposed as a farce. What he s hoping for, however, is public sympathy on account of a feigned sense of unfairness by Madonsela. Zuma s reference to the constitution is worth considering. He s right that the constitution confers powers to appoint a commission only to the president. And he feels this is his strongest defence, to a point of gloating.Not only does he appoint a commission, Zuma tells the court, but he also decides when, writes the terms of reference and chooses who heads it. As the authority empowered to do so, Zuma says he sees no need to appoint one and to do so will just be rubber stamping the desires of the public protector .Perhaps even more noteworthy about Zuma s submission is the assertion that, contrary to popular belief, Madonsela s recommendation will weaken the powers of the public protector. Findings by a commission are not binding whereas the public protector s do have a binding effect. Here Zuma, who was dismissive of the public protector s powers just early this year, purports to be a fervent supporter of that office. He writes: The public protector is the only institution that has wide powers to ensure that complaints are investigated in terms of the constitution and the Public Protector Act. A remedial action which instructs that a complaint laid with the public protector s office should instead be investigated by the judicial commission of enquiry improperly does violence to the provisions of the Public Protector Act. The Republic is facing a dilemma. In granting the president sole powers to appoint a commission, the drafters of the constitution never imagined this prestigious office would once be inhabited by someone with Zuma s flaws. Instead of facilitating a probe into impropriety, he is instead the cause of it. The commission must probe him, the head of state.We have an unusual case here. This also means that the president s insistence on appointing a commission is not logical in this particular case. While the constitution does grant him such powers, the eventual result of him doing so may be concealment, instead of uncovering the truth. Any court would be alert to such a possibility. After all, constitutional principles do not have an independent value, but are important to the extent that they enable a just and ethical outcome. It would be folly of any judge to grant Zuma s request simply because the constitution says only the president can appoint commissions. The question that judges must grapple with, therefore, is: what is the best way to uncover the whole truth about the State of Capture?We will never know the truth if the accused, President Zuma, appoints the commission and sets its terms of reference. To avoid complicity in a cover-up, the court may consider having the present Public Protector Busi Mkhwebane, as Zuma advises, continue the investigation. That consideration would make sense. But, in its reconstituted form, does the OPP have the capacity to undertake a thorough investigation? The investigation would be time-consuming, require more financial resources and personnel. Mkhwebane doesn t seem to have either. She doesn t want consultants or donations, and yet operates on a lean stuff and inadequate funds. That casts doubt on the ability of the public protector to undertake a thorough probe.This is a tough one for the Gauteng High Court. But judges are determined to punish individuals for abusing state resources and Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng is firm on ethical leadership. Madonsela s recommendation might just prove too persuasive to the court.* Ndletyana is associate professor of politics, based at the Institute for Pan African Thought and Conversation, University of Johannesburg.** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.The Sunday Independent