Durban - Wentworth men linked to opposing gangs hugged one another and signed a peace pledge in front of a cheering crowd on Friday.Fed up with young men s deaths because of drug and gang-related violence, residents, churches and local councillor Aubrey Snyman drove the peace deal. Whenever we open our Facebook pages we see RIP , said Michael Blacks Koster, who was also instrumental in bringing together the G Section and Destroyer gangs. What happened? You don t even have to ask, he said. People linked to both sides want peace. They are tired of burying people (who die from gunshot wounds). Between 2500 and 3000 people live in the area. A cheering Delia Naidoo, who described the deal as historic , said that whether people belonged to gangs or not they were associated with them simply because of where they lived. Especially the boys. They are unsafe. After 5 or 6pm, there is shooting. It s just not a life. Everybody lives in fear. People are dying senselessly. The drug wars have even spilled into a church. In May a packed church was petrol-bombed.At least six to eight young men have been shot dead this year alone, said one cleric.Young men and women have been injured in drive-by shootings and car accidents associated with the conflict. On Friday, churchmen led the young men from each side down opposite sides of Alabama Street under the watchful eyes of police to a table in the middle of the road.Ramon Ryan, from Weist Road - G Section turf, was the first signatory from his side. He said people needed change for the sake of the children. It (gangsterism) was passed on to us from our fathers and we are doing the same to our children. It goes like that, he said. But today, we have to take it back. It s not about us any more. It s about our children. Across the table from him, Wayne Lynch wore a T-shirt with a picture of Kaile Anthony, one of the latest victims of Wentworth gang violence. He died on December 11 at the age of 22, in crossfire.As they put pen to paper, several women wept. Remarks of awesome , Praise the Lord and Amen floated through the air. Pastor Takalani Mufamadi, of the local Grace Tabernacle Full Gospel Church, who chaired the peace talks, called for the peace agreement to be not just for Christmas but into the future.He called on people to stop writing negative things on Facebook. If you see anything negative, delete it, he said.The church leaders also called on people to resist squabbling and to call them to help resolve differences.Deacon Charles Parker, of the local Christ the King Roman Catholic Church, said gang wars had become out of control over the past two years.The lure of drugs came about because of unemployment and the easy money the illicit trade provided, he said.Koster added: The government needs to notice Wentworth s unemployment. He also said big business in the surrounding South Durban industrial area should offer careers to Wentworth s youth. Independent on Saturday