Terry Pheto is a star. It's only when you see the people she has worked with, who have sought her out for her talent and star power, that you realise that she's a pretty big deal. In a story about South Africa's top film actresses, I wrote: "When it comes to star power, Terry has it in spades. She's one of the most famous South African actresses and the film studios know this. READ: Paul Walker gone but not forgotten "Signing her up for a role in a film, almost always guarantees you recognition from critics and the public. She's a favourite of international film productions and has played more Mandela women than everyone else. "But then she's also something else - a good actress." A photo posted by Terry Pheto (@terrypheto) on Nov 27, 2016 at 1:55pm PST When people watch A United Kingdom, I'm certain the whole "Terry Pheto is not a good actress" narrative on social media will end because she more than proves herself skills as an actress. It's something that, while it should bother her, she has managed to tune out. From starring in a number of international film productions, to being a L'Oreal spokesmodel woman for Africa, judging at the International Emmy Awards and winning awards for her work as an actress, one would think she had done it all. A photo posted by Terry Pheto (@terrypheto) on Nov 24, 2016 at 9:35am PST But it's only the beginning. In 2014 she announced that  she was moving behind the scenes as a producer with her Leading Lady Productions, and successfully co-produced her first film, the critically acclaimed Ayanda. Ayanda was then bought by Selma director Ava DuVernay for her film distribution company, Array. In A United Kingdom, Pheto plays Naledi Khama, the sister of Botswana's first president, Seretse Khama's sister. The film tells the story of Seretse and his white wife, Ruth Williams, and the struggles they faced from Britain, South Africa and even their own families in accepting their interracial relationship. It stars British actors David Oyelowo and Rosamund Pike and is directed by Amma Asante. READ: Khloe Kardashian’s humiliating retail experiences At the film's premiere in Botswana, which coincided with the nation's celebration of its 50th Independence Day, the audience, which included the Khamas, were delighted with her performance. A photo posted by Terry Pheto (@terrypheto) on Sep 29, 2016 at 1:53am PDT "It really was an honour being a South African playing an iconic woman in the history of Botswana. Playing a real person is always challenging because it's a very sensitive thing. You can't mimic them. You take a chance and hope that your portrayal of them is as true as possible, without it becoming a caricature." Pheto received a British Independent Film Awards best supporting actress nomination for her work on the A United Kingdom. For Pheto, being nominated at these awards was affirmation of her skills as an actor. "I feel validated. I feel great because here's this respected awards body basically telling the world that I am worth celebrating. A photo posted by Terry Pheto (@terrypheto) on Mar 28, 2016 at 8:43am PDT “I was so emotional when I heard about it, because that day was my late brother’s birthday. I feel like I have carried him with me and he has pushed me to not be afraid to go for what I want.” And as we all know, stars go for exactly what they want and they succeed. And that is why Terry Pheto is a major star. Catch A United Kingdom, at cinemas from Friday,  December 9, 2016.