Cape Town A paraplegic man from Macassar who has been hiding behind closed doors for more than a decade said a rehabilitation exercise programme designed by a Somerset West doctor has changed his life.Gavin Johnson, 42, sustained T7 spinal cord injuries after he was stabbed in the back 14 years ago. He said that for the past decade, before the exercise programme to help people with spinal cord injuries (SCI), he had spent most of his time in bed at his mother s home. My body does not have much movement from the waist down, which is why I have been solely dependent on my mother and brother to help me. Three years ago, through a local disability group, Johnson was introduced to biokineticist Dr Candice Vermaak and her organisation Bridging Disabilities.Vermaak s eight-week community- based intervention, which focused on physical activity to make a positive change, was the motivation that Johnson said he needed to face society.The programme trains patients in physical activity focusing on the individual s cardiovascular endurance, strength and flexibility as well as their functional performance, which assists with activities of daily living.Vermaak meets the patients, aged between 19 and 53, twice a week for an hour-and-a-half session. Apart from Macassar, the programme has spread to Strand and Mitchells Plain. On the first day, I remember it was so hard I could only lift two weights. But now I can go up to 25 weights. I am able to push myself for further distances; instead of people helping me out of the car, I do it on my own. I can travel alone by train and go down curves, which is something I never imagined doing on my own, said Johnson.As part of the programme, the patient s health is tested regularly.Vermaak said that when she started working at the Western Cape Rehabilitation Centre, she noticed it was difficult for outpatients to get training. The current gap between inpatient rehabilitation and outpatient health and wellness prevents people with SCI from living a productive and good quality of life because of the lack of support after their discharge. Cape Argus