As another
year draws to a close, the most popular beauty looks have been revealed - and
it seems that the classic look reigns supreme. Indeed,
winged eyeliner, red lipstick and smoky eyes are among the most iconic beauty
looks of all time. Researchers
have revealed the top 50 best beauty trends of all time, as well as uncovering
the most popular beauty looks in 2016. A photo posted by FakeupFix💋💄 (@fakeupfix) on Dec 27, 2016 at 10:11am PST A photo posted by Keira Knightley (@keira_knightley_) on Mar 25, 2014 at 12:45pm PDT  The most popular hair trend is the long wavy curls favoured by the Duchess of
Cambridge, along with the beehive, the bob, French braids and the pixie crop. Other
hair-do's to feature in the top 50 iconic beauty looks include the perm, the
Farrah flick, blunt fringes, the high bun and cherry red hair. READ: Top 5 Beauty trends for 2017 The most favoured looks for 2016 include Kim Kardashian-inspired contouring,
exaggerated eyebrows - like those recently tattooed onto Katie Price and
rainbow hair. Some of the best makeup looks highlighted in the list are
nude lipstick, glittery eyelids, like those first worn by actress Kristen
Stewart, and pastel eyeshadow. A photo posted by Kim Kardashian West (@kimkardashian) on Aug 5, 2016 at 6:11pm PDT  The study
shows the average person will change the cut and style of their hair every
three or four years - and the bob is the most tried and tested cut, which has
been sported at some time by 56 per cent of women. When it
comes to experimenting with new beauty looks, 53 per cent of women will make a
change when they're bored with their current choice of make-up. A photo posted by Ombre Hairstyles 💇 (@ombrehairstyles) on Aug 30, 2015 at 7:55am PDT  READ: Meet the Blogger: Lipgloss is my Life

A spokesperson for Superdrug, who commissioned the research, said: 'Women's
beauty and fashion changes from one day to the next, but as this survey
suggests, there are some beauty looks which will go down in history as being
the most iconic. 'Makeup trends such as having red lips and smoky eyes will always be ones women fall back on as they suit so many people.' A photo posted by JennyDang  •  Sydney (@nailsbyjenny96) on Dec 27, 2016 at 2:29pm PST  'But it's
great to see some real modern classics in the list such as Ombre hair, glitter
nails and undercuts. 'Our best
sellers are a mix of the latest looks and the old classics and we're always
looking for the new modern trends which will become tomorrow's iconic beauty
must-haves.' Top 10
beauty looks for 2016 1. Contouring 2.
Exaggerated eyebrows 3. Rainbow
hair 4. Ombre
hair 5. Natural
brows 6. Big
plaits 7. Foil
nail polish 8. High
ponytails 9.
Highlighter 10. Glitter
eyeshadow 