Port Elizabeth Two men convicted of killing a 2-year-old girl during a gangland shooting were sentenced to life imprisonment in the Port Elizabeth High Court on Tuesday. Marcus Malgas, 24, and Gregory Van Staden, 30, who are apparently members of a notorious gang &quot;Sestien Honde&quot; (Sixteen Dogs) sat stone faced in the dock as their sentences were handed down on the 11 charges which they were convicted on. The charges against them included murder, attempted murder and the unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition. On the count of murder they were jailed for life, on the count of attempted murder of Eon Daries they received 10 years behind bars, on charges of attempted murder of five other people collectively they received 10 years, on counts of unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition they received 15 years and 5 years jail time respectively. Caydene Ruiters was shot and killed after shots were recklessly fired towards a group of people during a gang-related shooting during December last year. The child was in front of a house in Barcelona with her mother, sister and four men when a stray bullet hit her in the back. The girl was taken to Livingstone hospital but was declared dead shortly after arrival. In passing down sentence Judge Onika Van Papendorp said that although there was no evidence of who exactly fired the shots, the men acted with common purpose. She added that when the shooting happened there was no way the men would not have seen the little girl standing with the the group of people. Malgas is no stranger to criminal acts, he has two previous convictions for murder as well as convictions for theft and housebreaking. Van Staden has a rape conviction as well as theft and the unlawful possession of a firearm. Van Papendorp said neither of the accused showed remorse and there was no possibility of them being rehabilitated. She said the &quot;interests of the community weighed heavily&quot; adding that the Port Elizabeth Northern Areas had been taken over by gangsters. The judge said the toddler's parents Davidene Ruiters, Ricardo Windvogel and her sister Tamlynn were emotionally scarred and would have to live with Caydene's death for the rest of their lives. Leave to appeal the convictions was dismissed. Van Papendorp cited that in her view no other court would come to a different conclusion. African News Agency