Rome - Italy will plough as much as 20 billion euros ($21 billion) into the country s banks after Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena failed to secure its future by raising funds from investors, and other lenders could follow.Finance Minister Pier Carlo Padoan told reporters after a cabinet meeting in Rome that he expected Monte Paschi to ask for aid. The Siena, Italy-based bank confirmed in a statement that it will ask Italy for a precautionary capital increase. Italy s banks are reeling under a 360 billion-euro mountain of bad loans, a plight that has eroded profitability and undermined investor confidence. A nationalization of Monte Paschi, the biggest in Italy since the 1930s, could be followed by rescues for lenders including Veneto Banca and Banca Popolare di Vicenza as part of the 20 billion-euro government package.&quot;We will see if other banks ask for aid, Padoan said at the press conference. Italian Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni said EU officials agreed with Italy s plan to provide support to the country s banking system.Monte Paschi, the world s oldest lender, late Thursday abandoned plans to raise 5 billion euros from the market. The bank said it was scrapping the entire capital plan, including the sale of bad loans and the debt for equity swap.Read also: Italy paves way for $21bn aid for banks A nationalisation should have been done five years ago, said Francesco Confuorti, the CEO of Advantage Financial, a Milan-based investment firm. The bank lost time, money and credibility seeking to keep the patient on life support when he was in an irreversible coma. Monte Paschi CEO Marco Morelli had crisscrossed the globe looking for investors to back the bank s reorganisation plan, which included a share sale, a debt-for-equity swap and the sale of 28 billion worth of soured loans.&nbsp;Qatar s sovereign-wealth fund, which had considered an investment, hasn t committed to buying shares, people with knowledge of the matter have said. Other institutions that were considering buying shares had indicated that they would put funds in the troubled bank only if it s able to raise 1 billion euros from cornerstone investors, according to the people. The recapitalisation plan was too complex and unappealing, and the timing too short, said Renaud Champion, head of credit strategies at La Fran&ccedil;aise Investment Solutions. Bloomberg&nbsp;