Cape Town The freedom of convicted paedophile Anthony Freedendal, 76, hangs in the balance with his lawyers set to challenge his extradition on Wednesday, a month before his parole hearing is to be heard.Freedendal, 75, will oppose an application to extradite him to Australia to face charges of sexual exploitation of a child, indecent assault and unlawful sexual intercourse.Western Cape Correctional Services spokeswoman Carla Williams confirmed that Freedendal was seen by the Pollsmoor Correctional Supervision and Parole Board earlier in the year, and is to appear before it again on January 20.His lawyer, William Booth, said Freedendal s release on parole was pending the outcome of the court hearing in the Wynberg Magistrate s Court on Wednesday. We will have to see what the outcome of the application will be and how it will impact his possible release on parole, said Booth.In April last year it was reported that Freedendal, who has dual South African and Australian citizenship, pleaded guilty in the Cape Town Regional Court to 15 sex assault charges. He also confessed to sexually abusing three boys and five girls in Cape Town.He was sentenced to five years in jail in terms of Section 276(1)(i) of the Criminal Procedure Act 51 of 1977. This means he had to serve a sixth of his sentence behind bars and the rest under correctional supervision. His name was also to be entered into the National Register for Sex Offenders.He should have been released four months ago to serve the rest of his sentence under correctional supervision, but this process was put on hold when the extradition inquiry started.Patric Solomons, director of child rights group Molo Songololo, said they were concerned about Freedendal s possible release. If he is applying for parole it has to be investigated if he will be a risk to the children. We are concerned with the previous judgment. He is a repeat offender; the parole board needs to take that into consideration and place the children s interests first. The parole board needs to ensure that families are informed and able to represent themselves. We will also inform other children s organisations so that the decision made by the board is based on evidence and views from the victims. Solomons also raised concerns about the National Register for Sex Offenders. We are concerned that there is no one monitoring the offender s register for convicts who are going on parole and those who have completed their sentences. The register is not updated regularly and that is a problem, he said.Cape Argus