After Keegan’s shocking exit last week, the pressure has definitely been building up. Another Idol had to bite the dust, as per the nature of the competition and judging by comments on twitter, viewers seemed to have expected Bevin’s exit with the #BevinMustGo hashtag. But guys!!!!  Moving right along, the main show of the night was nothing short of entertainment, with two songs each from the remaining five. First round’s theme was devoted to showing season 12’s auditioning contestants ‘How it should have been done’. In the second round, competitors sang songs from their much loved musical idols. Top five’s first entrant Lucia, sang an R Kelly’s ‘If I could turn the hands of Time’ song sang by Gugulethu Dlamini at her audition, just to show her how it should have been done from the get-go. She went on to do a number from Lira’s 2011 album Return to Love, as her chosen Idol, which got her compliments on her consistency. According to Somizi, Lucia possesses two special qualities that nobody on the show has. “You are the only person that looks like they are having fun…enjoying themselves during a performance, while other look stressed about making it into the next round. Secondly, you are one person who can sing anything and any genre, and sing it properly,” he said. And yes, Lucia remains Randall’s favourite. “The one thing that you haven’t done, which every contestants has done, is to succumb to song choices and performance styles in the hope of winning the competition...because that means they are not being honest to themselves.   “And the fact is after the competition, no matter if they win or not, it will come back to haunt them. In your case, you are a sophisticated singer, you’ve chosen sophisticated songs, and you’ve never over emoted just to win the votes of this particular audience. "No matter how important it is, there’s a career for you post this competition,” raved Randall. Thami salvaged Enrique Iglesias’ Hero that got butchered by Ngalune during the auditions, and then went on to sing ‘I Got you’ by James Brown. His split stunt at the end of the classic James Brown number got him a standing ovation from two of the judges and cheers from the crowd. Somizi was elated at Thami’s joyful looking face. “Thami, clearly you’ve made me feel so good, you’ve made me feel like I don’t deserve to be paid for this job because I am entertained by you. More than anything Thami, for once you don’t have that ‘hluphekile face’ (poor face)….that sad face. You looked sexy, you looked hot. The cockiness, the attitude, the confidence. We needed that and you brought the house down. Right now, every girl in South Africa and every Somizi is voting for you,” he joked. Noma followed shortly with Josh Groban’s ‘You raise me up’, which got her a standing ovation from three of the judges. Beyoncé’s Heaven song selection was dedicated to a deceased friend, a song that only Unathi knew and therefore the rest couldn’t comment much on. Tebogo, Mr. three times lucky, performed a beautiful Ed Sheeran rendition ‘Thinking out loud’ and shocked many with Asa’s ‘Fire on the Mountain’ selection. “I commend you for choosing your favourite artist, telling everybody that your favourite artist is Asa. Not a lot of people know that kind of music, so you introduced that sort of sound to them and it works for you….you sang it really really well,” said Randall. Terra Cox had his rollercoaster ride this week again. His first performance of Adele’s Hello left viewers and the judges disappointed. He quickly redeemed himself with a Mariah Carey song, ‘’If it’s Over”. Unlike the rest, Randall was not enjoying the rollercoaster ride. “Terra, for two weeks in a row now, to use a soccer analogy, it’s been a tale of two arms. First-off not great then a great performance in the last 45 minutes. I have been here long enough to know that doesn’t win the competition. You really have to be absolutely brilliant, the song choice has to be right and the performance has got to be completely on the money because anything can and usually happens.” Viewers were equally not impressed, judging by their tweets:  Idols fan, South Africa’s Minister of Sports Fekile Mbalula seemed to be watching a different Idols show. He made mention of Thembi, Nomathamsanqa, Tira and Kgotso, in his tweets, and that made for a great laugh.  Tira stays neS-curl yakhe #idolssa  — RSA Min of Sport (@MbalulaFikile) October 30, 2016   Thembi has the best voice of this Season followed by Nomathamsanqa then Tira - Kgotso would be my third #idolssa  — RSA Min of Sport (@MbalulaFikile) October 30, 2016  Some fans got confused:  Next week, the top 4 win themselves an overseas trip and take a few more steps closer to the grand prize.  IOL