Mexico City - Lewis Hamilton and Nico Rosberg claimed another one-two for Mercedes in the Mexican Grand Prix as they continued their world championship battle on Sunday but behind the leading duo tempers began to fray. Ferrari's Sebastian Vettel produced a string of swear words on team radio late in the race, furious that Red Bull's Max Verstappen had left the track and returned in front of him as he chased the third and final podium place. Verstappen was eventually given a penalty which dropped him below Vettel, much to his anger. “He should go back to school,” the Dutch teenager Verstappen said to Sky Sports of Vettel's blue language, implying the four-time Formula One had to learn to control his vocabulary. “It is ridiculous what he did and then he starts shouting on the radio. I don't know how many times he is using very bad language. “I will speak to him because this is how ridiculous he is handling it, he is just a very frustrated guy at the moment.” Vettel, with the benefit of gaining the place, was a little calmer and suggested he would go to see race director Charlie Whiting, another target of his rant, even if he had little time for Verstappen. “I don't think there is anything to say [to Verstappen]. “I think it was very clear I was very emotional and I have asked already to go and see him [Whiting]. Was Vettel actually to blame? “When you are in the car I was full of adrenaline, because it is not right what Max did. I was getting upset, as you can imagine.” But Verstappen's team-mate Daniel Ricciardo rallied against Vettel, pointing out the German had been under-braking which caused the pair to collide as he attempted to sneak past. “He [Vettel] is smiling now. He doesn't deserve to be up there [on the podium],” Ricciardo said. “I thought I had every right to be there but he kept closing the door under-breaking. I was frustrated with that.” The Red Bull drivers were perhaps defensive as they felt the rules on under-breaking to defend had been tightened in response to Verstappen's habit of doing just that. But they were also united in their condemnation of the stewards for not punishing Hamilton for driving wide or Rosberg leaving the track following a nudge yet penalizing Verstappen later. “I also didn't understand the start, how you can be leading the race, defend, go off the track and not get a penalty?” Ricciardo asked. “What was different with Max Verstappen's move and Lewis'? It was a mistake and you have to pay the price.” Verstappen agreed and voiced his annoyance at the supposed inconsistency. “I think it is pretty similar to what happened in corner one, Lewis went off and got a massive advantage and Nico went off when we touched,” he said. “I didn't even get an advantage, I was the same length in front, so i think it is ridiculous.” DPA  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter   Subscribe to our Newsletter 