From the ongoing one-piece swimsuit trend to sporty cut-away bikinis and extreme cut-outs in solid and tropical prints, it's going to be a sizzling beach season. Here is a round-up of some of our favourites to inspire you during your beach apparel shopping trip. 1. The classic one-piece swimsuit: VADA by Sivada The Resort Goddess collection South Africa's online fashion retailer VADA has launched it's SS'17' 'Resort  Goddess' collection featuring the all-time favourite, classic one-piece swimsuit in sultry reds and feminine pastel hues. The designs are flattering feminine silhouettes for those who do not wish to flash too much skin. The collection also features delicate chiffon throw overs for lounging by the pool. Order from their website Also view the collection on Instagram @vadabysivada  The Resort Goddess collection. Credit: Supplied 2. BeachCult by Joanna Hedley: BeachCult is the debut swimwear collection by designer Joanna Hedley, whose perfectly fitted, barely there creations were showcased at last year's Africa Fashion Week in London and at Mercedes Benz Fashion Week Johannesburg (MBFWJ) in March. The collection features high waist and high-cut bottoms, as well as strap, crochet and mesh detailing. The prints used are by Cape Town artists and illustrators Emijl De Kock and Jade Klara. "The collection is inspired by the dichotomy of the human form in nature, which is realised both by our natural world themed prints, alongside our neutral plains, says Hedley. "It is a local, edgy taste on luxe swimwear and is inspired by and aimed at young at heart, confident women who are comfortable in their own skin, and looking for something striking", she says. To view Hedley's collection click here or Instagram@beachcult   BeachCult is the swimwear collection by designer Joanna Hedley. Credit: Supplied 3. The Mismatched bikini: A matching bikini top and bottom is cute, however a mismatched bikini also looks good when styled correctly. Don't be afraid to pair clashing colours and prints. READ: 7 Sexy swimsuits for Summer 4. Shoes: Your beach outfit requires the perfect foot gear that is both comfortable and stylish. Brazilian brand Havaianas recently held their SS17 event showcasing their latest range of flip flops and espadrilles. The shoes are available in colourful and quirky designs, including florals, nautical patterns and quirky comic designs. Visit Havaianas at the V&A Waterfront or shop online here  Your beach outfit requires the perfect foot. Credit: Supplied 5. Swim Trunks: Loud, colourful and busy board shorts remain a top favourite for men who want to swim in style. International fashion brand Vilebrequin have been leading the way when it comes to creating swim trunks and leisurewear that is functional and flattering favoured by the likes of Jude Law, British royals and Jay Z. Vilebrequin also offers resort and beach wear, including polo shirts, linen Bermudas and shirts for men, women and children; and an extensive range of beach accessories, including canvas bags, towels and caps. Find their stores at the V&A Waterfront, at Melrose Arch and Nelson Mandela Square in Johannesburg and at Thesen Island in Knysna. Follow Vilebrequin on Instagram @Vilebrequin_SA or on Facebook.  Loud, colourful and busy board shorts remain a top favourite for men who want to swim in style. Credit: Supplied  READ: 5 times Jeannie D looked sexy wearing a bikini 6. Granadilla Swim: Granadilla is a South African brand that lives by the maxim: "It's always summer somewhere". The name "Granadilla" was inspired by the iconic ice-cream sellers on Clifton 4th Beach in Cape Town ("a granadilla lolly to make you jolly!") where Granadilla founders Adam and Josh met several summers ago. Find them here  It’s always summer somewhere. Credit: Aubrey Ndiweni  