Durban - The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Agriculture sank more than R45 million into a project in the north-east of the province, but bad planning and irregularities have left it in shambles and millions of rands out of pocket. That is according to a department report which details how the project ran over budget by millions and how many of the goods bought were never delivered or proved unsuitable. It recommended action taken against the senior officials involved and that more than R9.6m be recovered from two suppliers and that they be blacklisted. The report, commissioned by the Agriculture and Rural Development Department in 2013, probed allegations of maladministration at Mjindi Farming in  Makhathini Flats, Jozini. But three years after it was completed, it has yet to be made public - a move which has now prompted the DA to call on incumbent MEC Themba Mthembu, new to the portfolio, to release it without further delay. The report  found that R45.81m was approved by a senior official to buy potato seeds, fertilisers, agrochemicals and irrigation equipment. “Payments by the department in respect of these agricultural inputs exceeded the approved budget by R2 181 832,” the report said. No approval was obtained from the then MEC, Meschack Radebe, for procurement of the the goods in excess of the authorised budget. Five top officials from the department, including one who has since quit, as well as two others from Mjindi were accused of irregularities. Disciplinary hearings were recommended for six of the implicated officials still in the employment of the department and Mjindi. While the report said a disciplinary hearing should have been recommended against the official who approved the project, that could not happen because the official had resigned.  Other findings included: * Payment of R1.704 000 by the department was for chemicals not ordered; * Department had not thoroughly reviewed suppliers invoices before payments were made; * Requisition was not approved by the appropriate official with at least two having done so when they had not been delegated to approve requisition in excess of R10m; and * Irrigation pipes provided to the department could not be distributed as the equipment could not fit as required after amendments were made to specification - resulting in pipes not meeting the requirements of the farmers.  Mthembu’s spokesman, Khaye Nkwanyana, told the Daily News on Thursday night that the MEC was committed to acting on the findings of the report and would determine the processes to be followed. “He has made an assurance that he is not to cover (up for) anyone. Due processes will have to unfold against those implicated,” Nkwanyana said. Only one official was reached for comment, but he vehemently denied any wrong-doing. “I don’t know what you talk about. I was never invited by anyone to answer any question,” said the official. He pleaded innocence. “When you have a budget, it is there to support people. In this case, it was the farmers.” The official could not say what he planned to do about the report’s adverse finding because he had not seen it. The report had also found that the department had failed to perform proper costing before putting out the tender for procurement of the potato seeds, fertilisers, chemicals and irrigation equipment. The probe had found no evidence to support that requirements were met for the procurement process, which had followed a two-bid tender process. “The department was, therefore, unable to demonstrate transparency, fair competition and impartiality in selecting and appointing a service provider to supply the potato seeds.” In a shocking revelation, a top official, still in the employ of the department, allegedly signed and approved invoices submitted by the company without approval of then head of department. It was also found that the department did not enter into a contract with the companies after awarding the tender. “The fact that the department did not enter into contracts with the service providers meant they could not ensure or monitor deliverables.” Daily News