Cape Town - The legendary, ultra-luxurious Crystal Symphony will grace our shores for a short cruising season in December 2017. Luxury travellers around the world are familiar with the “Crystal Cruises” brand. The cruise line has been voted the “World's Best” more times than any other cruise line, resort or hotel in the world, by the readers of the prestigious Conde Nast Travel and Travel & Leisure magazines. “We are delighted to have the Crystal Symphony in South Africa in December 2017”, says George Argyropoulos, CEO of Cruises International. “We've got exciting opportunities planned for our South African clients to sample the luxury and unique lifestyle, offered only by Crystal Cruises”. All itineraries offer a number of days at sea, where one can enjoy the plentiful amenities and entertainment options onboard. The Feng Shui themed spa, various lectures, golf classes, language classes, bridge games, the spacious gym and the movie house are just a few of the luxury options available to the guests.  A photo posted by Glency Feliz (@glencyfeliz) on Aug 16, 2016 at 9:49am PDT  Not to mention the ultra-fine dining, including a Nobu Matsuhisa run restaurant and the grand “Crystal dining room”, the only restaurant at sea which offers a choice of “classic” and “molecular” cuisine every evening. Whilst Crystal Cruises offers an ultra-luxurious holiday experience, junior cruisers are catered for too. During school holidays many families enjoy a multi-generational reunion on board and special amenities and activities are available for the younger members of the family. Usually, to enjoy a cruise of such high standard, one is required to fly long haul to international destinations as well as acquire multiple visas. The discerning traveller is looking for hassle-free, refined travel, leaving behind these restrictions and replacing this with an all-exclusive, all-inclusive luxury vacation tailored to suit one's style.  A photo posted by Stacy Allen (@stacyallen111) on Oct 20, 2016 at 2:52am PDT  For the intrepid explorer, innovative shore excursions and private off-ship adventures such as cage-diving with sharks in Cape Town,  can be customised on your behalf, further personalising every guests experience. With majestic Table Mountain as a backdrop, Cape Town's V&A Waterfront is one of the most scenic ports to sail in to. Recently awarded preferred bidder status by the Transet National Ports Authority for the development of a cruise terminal at the Port of Cape Town, the V&A recognises that cruise liner tourism is one of the fastest growing areas of tourism. Just under R179-million will be invested to finance, design, and develop this state-of-the-art terminal. Adapted from a press release for IOL