Durban - King Goodwill Zwelithini is finding it embarrassing having to search for accommodation at hotels and bed and breakfast establishments for his guests, who accommodate him at royal houses when he is visiting in other countries.The monarch now wants a royal village to accommodate his guests when they pay him visits to his palaces in the northern part of KwaZulu-Natal.Ironically, the disused ministerial complex - comprising 15 houses previously used by erstwhile KwaZulu administration and democratic government to house MECs in Ulundi - appears to be the perfect place for the planned royal village .But lawmakers want to be furnished with the financial costs involved, among other things, before the houses are handed over to the king.The Daily News has established that the monarch made a request to the KZN government for the use of three ministerial houses earlier this year, at a meeting where he had raised several issues.The request was on Monday confirmed by a royal family spokesman, and members of the legislature s portfolio committee on the Office of the Premier (OTP).Royal spokesman, Prince Thulani Zulu, said: It is to make a royal village to accommodate the king s guests. Zulu also said he had no idea what came out of the king s request for the houses. They were lying there for some years, very dilapidated, until His Majesty asked them to be renovated (for use by the royal household) as they were white elephants... We are still waiting for the response of the government, Zulu said.The Daily News was told a verbal report was given by an official from Public Works Department that three ministerial houses had been allocated to the royal household.Public Works Department spokesman, Mbulelo Baloyi, confirmed a request was made through the Office of the Premier (OTP) for the use of three houses in the ministerial complex. Three houses have been made available to the OTP for use by His Majesty, Baloyi said.Zulu said the king has key guests from other countries, whom he could not all accommodate at his palaces. The king will be happy to use the houses as guest houses for royals. Sometimes he is invited to other countries and accommodated in decent royal houses. So when they come to visit him, they find no place to be accommodated, other than at the hotels. For some people, it is not a decent protocol to be in a hotel, Zulu said.The request for ministerial houses came up for discussion at the legislature last week, when lawmakers asked for an update on concerns previously raised by His Majesty.Nonhlanhla Khoza, newly-appointed committee chairwoman and ANC MPL, said the committee has demanded a full report since the houses needed to have a memorandum of understanding signed on their usage. We said they must prepare a full report, she explained.But, EFF MPL Vusi Khoza said his party respected the traditional leadership institution. It is our considered view that if he is making a request, that request must be looked into. But, we can t look at it without checking what necessitated it, and the financial implications, Vusi Khoza said.He also said they needed to be furnished with the value of the houses and other cost implications. If they are to be renovated and customised to befit his status, at what cost? Once we have the comprehensive report, it is then we can say we support it. Our role is oversight on behalf of those who elected us, Vusi Khoza added.Sizwe Mchunu, DA caucus leader in the legislature, said he was taken aback when it was it merely reported that three houses were allocated to the royal family. The report was unbecoming. What we had resolved on was a detailed report of the properties (in Ulundi), their usage, their value and if the government had plans for their use, and the financial implication in terms of maintenance, Mchunu said.He also said while a detailed report had been awaited, the implementation of only one item among many issues raised by the king came as a shock.We have got to apply our minds on all the issues His Majesty raised. We can t only hear the property has been allocated, he said. What happened to the others. What kind of contract has been entered into? Who will manage the houses and who stands to benefit? Mchunu asked.The committee chairwoman said the proposed use of the houses for royal guests was a good idea that could minimise vandalism at the ministerial complex.King Goodwill ZwelithiniDaily News