By committing to lower their travel restrictions, SA and Kenya have set an example worth emulating across Africa, writes Victor Kgomoeswana. The decision to remove trade barriers between Kenya and South Africa is the silver lining of what would have been a hopelessly grim week. During his visit to Kenya, President Jacob Zuma got trending for what was deemed a nonchalant junket by several media commentators. Who is still surprised by President Zuma dancing the night away? He is a singer-dancer, but it is uncanny to cast everything as his escapist merrymaking, while his country was throttled by #FeesMustFall violence and Thuli Madonsela’s last hours in office. South Africa and Kenya signed about six bilateral agreements, including collaboration on the conservation, security and easing of visa requirements. The latter is of crucial importance because South Africa’s visa policies are patronisingly skewed against other African countries. It is easy for South Africans to secure a visa on arrival in Tanzania, Burundi, Rwanda, but near impossible, vice versa. But agreeing to revise these requirements will facilitate travel between the two hubs of southern Africa and East Africa, South Africa and Kenya, respectively. The vital importance of regional economic integration and its attendant intra-Africa trade cannot be overstated. With the latest agreements, although implementation of them will take some time, the two hubs will strengthen the channel of cultural and economic exchange between their two respective regional economic blocs. Since July 1, 2014, when the Kenya High Commission announced that South African passport-holders travelling to Kenya would have to pay a R750 visa fee and that visas would no longer be issued on arrival, travel between the two countries has been stifled. Before then, South African passport-holders travelling to Kenya for 30 days or less were exempt from any visa requirement. However, with South Africa perceived to be increasingly hostile towards other African countries in its visa policies, countries like Kenya started retaliating. Nigeria was another to get entangled in a diplomatic sparring match with South Africa, recalling its representative in a reactive move against the attacks on African nationals in South Africa. While one African country was busy fighting another over this or that complication, Europe, the US, China, India, Brazil and Russia were closing self-serving economic partnership agreements and bilateral trades with individual African states - further dividing a fractured continent. This division continues to deprive us of what should naturally be our collective economic benefit from intra-Africa trade. This is currently stagnating at 11.3 percent of Africa's total trade with the world. The situation is worsened by sporadic skirmishes between leading African economies, like Kenya and South Africa or Nigeria, which ought to be working together. By committing to lower their travel restrictions, South Africa and Kenya have set an example worth emulating across Africa. These agreements, among others, enhance opportunities for South African utilities. For example, Transnet could cash in on plenty of infrastructure projects in East Africa. One such multibillion-rand project is the Lamu Port Southern Sudan-Ethiopia Transport (Lappset), Kenya's second transport corridor. Already Mombasa in the south of the country is battling to cope with the requirements of moving cargo to and from its landlocked neighbours, namely Uganda, Burundi and Rwanda - as well as Ethiopia. Bearing in mind that Uganda plans to start exporting crude oil, Lappset is bound to continue in spite of the glitches it ran into. Transnet is well poised to participate in the building or running of some of the ports within the project. So, let us cut Msholozi some slack. He might have not acquitted himself too well on several issues locally. His Kenyan counterpart, Uhuru Kenyatta, did not help matters either by tweeting that picture of President Zuma’s illegible message in some visitors’ book. And while we haggle over how he stumbled yet again in his dealings with the exiting public protector over the state capture report, let us give credit where such is due. In the same week in which he fumbled his way on matters much closer to home, to his credit he equally tackled a massive monster standing in the way of Africa's economic self-sufficiency. * Kgomoeswana is author of Africa is Open for Business and hosts Power Hour from Monday to Thursday on Power FM. Twitter Handle: @VictorAfrica ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. The Sunday Independent