The Daily News Your Choice Awards was a unique and inspirational affair thanks to Tingg. Omeshnie Naidoo chats to the BFFs behind the marketing and events company’s success Childhood friends Candice Botha and Hayley Solomon teamed up last year to begin the adventure they had always dreamed about. Botha is a single mom and globe trotter with an eye for design, while Solomon is an astute businesswoman with many years of marketing experience under her belt. “Our moms were partners years ago, and as besties we often did baby showers, birthday parties and weddings together. Tingg is a dream come true for us,” says Solomon. This week, they brought their enthusiasm to the Daily News Your Choice Awards, creating a laid-back South African shebeen-style vibe for the event. Here are their ideas on how you can recreate the look: * Up-cycle or recycle as much as possible. Turn unused tyres into tyre tables by stacking one tyre on top of the other. You can vary the height of the tables. Use old pallets to create your table top. You can paint the tyres in bright colours and paint the wood with chalkboard paint, which will allow you to write special messages and quotes for guests. * Oil drums also make great table alternatives – use again with a wood top. If you want to get really creative, decoupage the table top with magazines/newspapers. Drums are available from any local drum distribution company. B-grade drums are perfect for decor and are affordable. * Focus your attention on the detail: Wilson Toffees, Chappies, proteas and rock roses all evoke a somewhat stereotypical South African township vibe. * South African food tins (Koo, Lucky Star, Bovril and Black Cat Peanut Butter) can be used in various ways. We used ours as “vases” for our rock roses. Make sure you use a modern tin opener to ensure you take the lid off cleanly. * Enamel cups and plates really give the decor scheme an authentic African feel. Checkers normally stocks these items. * Sometimes you want to be literal. The shape of the Africa continent is beautiful, use it for wood or paper cut-outs as place mats. You can copy and cut, or opt for laser cutting. * Decor pieces you may have at home include rugby balls, soccer balls, vuvuzelas and quirky SA cushions. * Corrugated roofing sheets are another great way to bring the whole look together. Simply place on walls as a backdrop. These can be picked up at any hardware or timber store. * For more, visit www.tingg.co.za