Two minutes of “madness” saw Cape Town City suffer just their second Premiership defeat of the season as they went down 2-1 to Baroka FC at Cape Town Stadium on Saturday night. After Baroka had the better of the first half, but failed to score, City coach Eric Tinkler would’ve hoped that his team could push forward in search of a decisive goal. But it was Kgoloko Thobejane’s Polokwane-based Baroka who came out firing for the second stanza, and it took them just seven minutes after the break to get the opener. Left back Ndivhuwo Ravhuhali blasted his free kick into the gap next to City’s wall, which forced goalkeeper Shuaib Walters to make a diving save to his right. But the ball rebounded back into the path of several Baroka players, and defender Mzwanele Mahashe got the first touch to beat Walters and give the visitors a 1-0 lead. Tinkler would’ve expected his backline to be on red alert after conceding on their home ground, but things went from bad to worse as Baroka struck another blow a few seconds later. Marshall Munetsi delivered a superb pass on the right to split open City’s defence, and he rolled the ball into the path of Man-of-the-Match Richard Matloga, who kept his cool to beat an advancing Walters and find a charging Cleopas Dube to bury the ball into the back of the net. At 2-0 down, it looked like a long road back for City, but they provided an immediate riposte to the double blow. From the resultant kickoff, some quick passing saw City captain Lebogang Manyama find Bhongolethu Jayiya on the inside, and Jayiya’s lovely little chip over the top of the Baroka defence was superbly read by Given Mashikinya, who had the skill to flick the ball with the outside of left foot and over Baroka goalkeeper Innocent Mbangeni for a cool finish. With around 35 minutes left, there was still enough time for City to find an equaliser, but they missed a number of chances inside the Baroka box. Their best opportunities came from set-pieces, with Baroka battling to deal with corners into the penalty area, but the ball just didn’t roll in City’s favour. Jayiya was the man making things happen for City upfront, but his last touch let him down on occasion, while Lehlohonolo Majoro nearly snuck in at the near post with a ricochet off Mbangeni in the 73rd minute. Sibusiso Masina couldn’t keep his long-range curler down in the 83rd minute following a good pass from Matt Sim, and that was the end of City’s challenge. Baroka should’ve had a third with two minutes to go, but Matloga shot wide with Walters rushing forward to close him down. Baroka shoot up to eighth position on seven points after just their second win in the Premiership, while City are fourth on goal difference with eight points, level with third-placed Orlando Pirates and Polokwane City in fifth. Earlier on Saturday, Kaizer Chiefs held on to top spot (13 points) with a 2-0 victory over Ajax Cape Town in Durban, and they were joined on 13 by Golden Arrows, who beat Chippa United 1-0 in KwaMashu.  ashfak.mohamed@inl.co.za  @ashfakmohamed