The road to joining Lillian and Samuel as Mr and Mrs Kamanga was not easy, as we saw on last nights episode of Our Perfect Wedding. The couple from Tshwane in Pretoria have been living together for a very long time and finally got to celebrate their union on the popular wedding show, as suggested by their daughter - who was also the wedding planner. After spotting his potential makoti while she was in school, Samuel went straight for the kill and approached Lillian’s grandfather to ask for permission to date her. The family had become concerned as to when they would make things official. In 2013 Samuel paid his lobola and that began their two-year-long preparation for the big day. On the wish list, the couple wanted perfection on the bride’s dress, the cake and... the cars. But the hiccups began the day before the wedding. The tyre of the car they were travelling in burst as they were going to check their décor and the dress. Immediately Lillian was in panic mode. As if that was not enough, things got worse on the wedding day with the pastor being late, five tables going missing, the seven-tier cake not being properly assembled and the bride’s bouquet  being left behind at the designer’s house - which is an hour and a half away!  “What’s happening? Why am I facing so many challenges?” asked Lillian amid all the confusion. As soon as the pastor arrived, the show had to go on - with or without the bouquet. After the guests waited for a bit, they finally got to witness the ‘I Dos’ from the couple. But the newlyweds were not at all impressed with the pastor. Firstly he was extremely late, and secondly he did not allow them to say their beautiful wedding vows, which they ended up reading to the cameras. Jessica was a little confused as to why they needed the luxury cars, seeing that the ceremony and reception took place in the same yard. Well, they sure were useful on their way to take their wedding pictures! The driver of the main car even did a little stunt, walking beside the car, leaving it to roll on its own. Halala!  Back at the reception tent, regardless of the hiccups, the décor came together beautifully with the blue and peach theme. The expected chairs didn’t arrive, though, but a Plan B was made. The bride, however, was not impressed. “I wasn’t happy. In my tent, there was no order and things were mixed up. The décor wasn’t what we wanted,” she said. They changed into beautiful traditional attire, which was colourful and well put together. Food was served, drinks were had and Lillian was officially a Mrs.   “What made me happy was that what we planned for two years finally happened. Today I am Mrs. Kamanga.” Through it all, regardless of all the challenges, they were joined in holy matrimony.