Cape Town - It was admittedly a batting paradise at Newlands on Thursday, but the Cape Cobras fast bowlers could be playing for their place in the rest of their clash against the Warriors. The imminent return of Proteas Test quick Rory Kleinveldt from a “nice little break” following an outstanding season with Northamptonshire in England will bolster the Cobras’ attack significantly. “We are spending this week to get Rory up to speed with things. He’s had a nice little break, and a fresh Rory Kleinveldt is vital within our team - what he brings in terms of experience and a leadership point of view,” Cobras coach Paul Adams told Independent Media before the start of Thursday’s Sunfoil Series game against the Warriors. But the manner in which the Eastern Cape side piled on the runs may make the decision easier for Adams to decide who needs to make way for Kleinveldt for next week’s match against the Titans at Newlands. The Warriors reached 342/4 off 96 overs, with openers Michael Price and Edward Moore getting to 99 and 50 respectively, while No 3 Colin Ackermann continued with his good form by with an unbeaten 116. Former Cobras batsman Yaseen Vallie scored 61 as well. The key for the Warriors were partnerships of 113, 94 and 117 throughout a hot day in Cape Town as Cobras pacemen Beuran Hendricks, Dane Paterson and Tshepo Moreki were unable to make any early breakthroughs. It was spinner Dane Piedt who dismissed Moore, while medium-pacer Stiaan van Zyl captured 2/33 in 11 overs. Moreki got the last wicket of the day when he trapped Vallie lbw, but his figures were an unimpressive 1/65 in 14 overs. Hendricks also battled, going for 63 runs in his 14, while Paterson at least kept things tight with 0/50 in 19 overs. “It could possibly be new roles for a Beuran and a Paterson of leading the attack. With that pressure on them, they’ve just got to make sure they do the basics well, and that’s the key message we are trying to give them. They’ve done it in the past and taken a lot of wickets, but it’s important that they understand how to lead the attack,” Adams said ahead of the Warriors match. Hendricks and Paterson have both featured for SA A previously, and will need to show that leadership on Friday morning by getting rid of the last specialist batsmen in Ackermann and Somila Seyibokwe (four not out) if the Cobras are to get back into the game.  ashfak.mohamed@inl.co.za  @ashfakmohamed Independent Media