Azealia Banks has reportedly filed a police report after accusing Russell Crowe of allegedly choking her at his hotel suite. The '212' rapper is believed to be unimpressed that the 'Noah' actor has failed to apologise for his behaviour in front of 10 guests, who were there to have dinner and listen to music, and so the 25-year-old star decided to contact the Beverly Hills police department. A source told TMZ that the 52-year-old actor thought there was no reason for him to say he is sorry because he hasn't done anything wrong. Russell is believed to have thrown Azealia out of his suite after she threatened to “stab” his guests in the throat. Sources previously told the publication the trouble began when Azealia laughed at Russell's music selection and called him and at least one other guest “boring white men”. A female friend then jumped to their host's defence and suggested the rapper be quiet, prompting an astonishing tirade from Azealia. She allegedly said: “You would love it if I broke my glass, stabbed ou guys in the throat, and blood would squirt everywhere like some real Tarantino s**t.” She is also reported to have used the n-word a number of times, but her host remained “surprisingly calm”. When Azealia reached for her glass and raised it as if she were about to throw it, the 'Gladiator' star grabbed her in a bear hug and carried her out of the suite, before calling hotel security to remove her from the grounds. Though four guests have given statements claiming Azealia was behaving “erratically” and confirming she was the one using racist terms, the rapper took to her Facebook account to accuse Russell of choking her, throwing her out of his room and spitting on her. In a now-deleted post, she wrote: “To recap my night, I went to a party at Russell Crowe's suite, at which he called me a n****r, choked me, threw me out and spat at me. “Last night was one of the hardest nights of sleep I've had in a long time. “The men in the room allowed it to happen. I feel terrible today.” Another deleted post read: “Just feel so low and mishandled and alone and f*****g depressed right now. I wish I had someone to beat him up for me.” Bang Showbiz