Known for their exquisite lingerie and swimwear that will make you feel beautiful and shape wear garments that will hide any imperfection, from some of the most well- known, cutting edge and luxurious brands from around the world. After recently visiting the showrooms of the brands abroad, here are their top 7 picks for the Summer Season which will be available in store from September/October. Reflecting cuts, styles and fits for women of all body types. 1. Roidal - Bandeaux style This swimsuit has soft cups for all bust shapes. Some bandeaux styles have a ruched mesh outer fabric to hide any imperfections however they all have power netting internally for tummy control. It also has a removable halter neck strap, making it a very versatile piece.  Roidal – Bandeaux style swimsuit. Credit: Supplied 2. Gottex Square Neck Tank This swimsuit has a square neck with soft cups, for all bust types and perfect for a fuller busted woman too. It has tummy control from internal power netting and adjustable back straps. It is very flattering on all figures and especially fuller figure women.  Gottex square neck tank swimsuit. Credit: Supplied 3. Roidal Sweet Heart shape Bikini This bikini top has a moulded padding cup in a sweet heart shape to enhance the bust. It is tastefully jewelled at the centre front with hints of Swarovski crystals for an elegantly glamourous look with its matching bottom.  Roidal bikini swimsuit. Credit: Supplied 4. Gottex Profile tankini top and matching bottom Available in soft cups or under wired internal bras, these Tankinis are made to compliment all busts including a fuller bust. They have adjustable straps or removable straps and when complimented with a matching separate bottom, create a one piece look. Gottex Profile is known for their tankinis which look like a stylish and versatile one piece bather when on the body.  Gottex profile swimsuit. Credit: Supplied 5. Gottex Profile For a fuller busted lady, this swimsuit offers support in the bust while showing just enough cleavage, and with a centre front plaited detail and ruching in the midriff, provides for extra tummy support while keeping the swimsuit appropriately stylish and sexy. READ: How to wear your white shirt like a boss  Gottex profile swimsuit. Credit: Supplied 6. Gottex Celebrating 60 years Gottex have produced a decadent Jewel Collection range, using the finest swimwear fabrics available and accessorized in the most beautiful jewels, embroideries and trims available, to make this range stand apart from any swimwear they have ever made. The Gottex Jewel collection still features all the important fit aspects a woman requires from her swimwear as well as the timeless and classic Gottex flare.  Gottex swimsuit from Jewel Collection range. Credit: Supplied 7. Gottex Jewel Collection Sunseeker swimwear oozes fun in the sun style with ageless youthfulness, bold prints and bright colours this season. The various shapes are designed to enhance all body types with their many style options. The over the shoulder straps on certain pieces in the range are fully adjustable with heat resistant metal rings and slides. Moulded padded full pieces and bikini tops have removable air pads inside for the look that depends on the mood you are in.  Sunseekers swimsuit. Credit: Supplied READ: Posh & Kate MUST HAVE make-up product  For more information, visit social media platforms below.   Facebook Inner Secrets Lingerie  Twitter @InnerSecrets_CT Instagram @InnerSecrets_SA