Miss South Africa top 26 semi-finalists were revealed on Thursday October 13 at the Maslow hotel in Sandton. The beauty queens graced the stage, each looking stunning in Khosi Nkosi's designer dresses. Program director Proverb called each of the semi-finalist to introduce themselves. “They are exquisite, they come from all regions around South Africa, I'm very proud, I'm very excited about this group of girls and not only are they beautiful, they are intelligent and very charismatic” The beauties will be competing for the prestigious title at the Sun City Superbowl on March 25 2017. Amongst this year's semi-finalist are a medical doctor and a speech therapist; several law students; engineering student; construction company owner and a news anchor.  The semi-finalists come from six of the country's nine provinces with the biggest group of 14 coming from Gauteng Province.  Here are the semi-finalists for Miss SA 2017  “	Adè van Heerden - Herold's Bay, Western Cape “	Boipelo Mabe - Alexandra, Gauteng “	Callie-Jo Bouman - Bellville, Cape Town, Western Cape “	Chante Holloway - Atlantis, Western Cape “	Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters - Sedgefield, Western Cape “	Devoney Crossman - Greenstone, Johannesburg, Gauteng “	Iman Mkwanazi - Lenasia, Gauteng “	Jessica Tovey - Randparkridge, Johannesburg, Gauteng “	Kayla Malherbe - Mtunzini, Kwa Zulu Natal “	Keipeile Dintoe - Saulsville, Pretoria, Gauteng “	Lou-Marie Taljaard - Bellville, Cape Town, Western Cape “	Michelle Kruger - Witbank, Mpumalanga “	Milanie Cilliers - Mokopane, Limpopo “	Nicole van Niekerk - Môregloed, Pretoria, Gauteng “	Nompumelelo Mampholo - Diepkloof, Soweto, Gauteng “	Ntombikayise Msimango - Springs, Gauteng “	Odirile Sepeng - Mabopane, Pretoria, Gauteng “	Olin-Shae de la Cruz - Claremont, Cape Town, Western Cape “	Priyeshka Lutchman - Yellowwood Park, Durban, Kwa Zulu Natal “	Saskia Wagner - Honeydew, Gauteng “	Shané Naidoo - Benoni, Gauteng “	Shelbe Pretorius - Pinehaven, Krugersdorp, Gauteng “	Shenai Bridglall - Port Shepstone, Kwa Zulu Natal “	Tshegofatso Monggae - Dobsonville, Soweto, Gauteng “	Yuta Raubenheimer - Kameeldrift, Pretoria, Gauteng “	Zozibini Tunzi - East London/Tsolo, Eastern Cape  “We have a very talented and diverse Top 26 this year, a group of young women who are passionate about competing and who have the intelligence, dedication and attitude to take the crown,” says Claudia Henkel, PR Manager of Sun International - the licence holders of Miss South Africa. Suzette van der Merwe, the Executive: Commercial Communications for headline sponsor Cell C added “The competition attracted high calibre entrants this year.  We believe these young women are passionate about the opportunities associated with wearing the Miss South Africa crown and do their country proud.” The current Miss South Africa, Ntandoyenkosi Kunene, will crown her successor at the 2017 pageant. She will be leaving at the end of the year to compete in the Miss World and Miss Universe pageants. In Ntando's message to the semi-finalist she said,” Have fun, it's a once in a life time opportunity, learn as much as you can and take in as much as you can from this competition.” Miss South Africa 2017 will receive R1-million in cash from sponsors Sun International and Cell C as well as a bouquet of prizes that will elevate the competition to one of the richest pageants in the world. The Miss South Africa Pageant is a proud collaboration between Sun International and Cell C. The new Miss South Africa 2017 will be crowned at Sun City on March 25 and simulcast live on Mzansi Magic (Channel 161) and M-Net (Channel 101).  IOL