BY DEBASHINE THANGEVELO LONG gone are the days when superhero characters were only found on the big screen. TV networks have realised that the comic book characters offer a wealth of opportunity for the small screen. As such, the playground is fast becoming populated by iconic characters embarking on heroic missions. The narrative is punctuated by backstories that make the characters relatable (on an emotional level), while saluting their heroism with epic battle scenes. What’s great about DC Comics’ Arrow, The Flash, Supergirl and DC’s Legends of Tomorrow is that the characters live incongruously in each other’s world, when the storyline merits it. The cinematography, costumes and supporting characters augment the appeal of superhero TV shows.  ARROW 5 BASED on Green Arrow, this series has marvellously ingratiated itself into the hearts of fans, new and old. Arrow features Oliver Queen (played by Stephen Amell) at the helm of the narrative. In the first season, the billionaire playboy returned after being presumed dead at sea for five years. He also harboured a secret that was only exposed to a handful of people: he was the hooded vigilante with the bow and arrow, patrolling the streets of Starling City and ridding it of criminal elements. Of course, this meant often butting heads with law enforcement, in particular, Detective Quentin Lance (Paul Blackthorne), while navigating his way around some tumultuous emotional situations at home and in his personal life. Over time, his posse of crusaders has expanded to include John Diggle/Spartan, Thea Queen/Speedy, Felicity Smoak/Overwatch and Curtis Holt/Mister Terrific. Season five opens on a sombre note with Oliver Queen, who is also the mayor of Star City, paying homage to Laurel Lance/Black Canary. Her dad is also an emotional wreck and has turned to alcohol to numb his pain. There’s also a disconnect in the group as John Diggle has gone away for a bit. Meanwhile, there’s simmering tension between Oliver and Thea, who is now his chief of staff. He is forever late for functions as he is often engaged in one battle or another, not that it shields him from speculation about his competence in office. Of course, romantic hiccups punctuate the script. After all, fans are still reeling over Oliver and Felicity’s break-up. The arrival of Detective Malone (Tyler Ritter) doesn’t help the situation, especially with him falling for our hot, spectacled techno guru. And a superhero TV series isn’t complete without a new villain. This time, Tobias Church, a crime lord, sets his sights on destabilising the city by taking out the vigilante protecting it. Meanwhile, someone from Oliver’s past creates a stir with his arrival. Arrow 5 doesn’t stray from the dark, dramatic playground of tense face-offs it is known for. And the writers freshen up things with another new character, Rene Ramirez/Wild Dog (played by Rick Gonzalez).  THE FLASH 3 HAUNTED by the murder of his mother and the wrongful incarceration of his father, Barry Allen (Grant Gustin), has dedicated much of his superhero time to trying to clear his dad’s name. A huge part of him has always yearned for the family life he was robbed of by the Reverse-Flash. So it’s unsurprising that, at the outset of season three, he gets to go back in time and change things by saving his mother. Of course, this reaction is spurred on by the death of his father. Back in a different timeline, the socially-awkward CSI of Central City Police Department finds himself lapping up the normalcy of his family life, with a doting mother and father. He is comforted by the fact that Eobard Thawne is imprisoned in a cage and poses no threat to his family.So he goes about his life like a regular person, while keenly following the clash between The Rival and Kid Flash (who is Wally). And he tries to get Iris, who is still a passionate journalist, to go on a date with him. Meanwhile, Joe is an alcoholic, who is on the verge of losing his job. He has a fractured relationship with his kids. Of course, his action isn’t without consequences. Although Barry tries his best to do damage control before losing all his memories from his original timeline, ?it isn’t good enough. He has created a huge rift between Joe and Iris. The villains in The Flash are always formidable characters. The writers ensure there is ample personal drama and emotional residue propelling the narrative. And Gustin is commendable with his tricky juggling act, playing the guy-next-door who wields much clout as The Flash. Only time will tell how Barry will make up for the can of worms he has just opened. More so, with a new threat looming.  SUPERGIRL 2 FOR SOME reason, not everyone has warmed up to Melissa Benoist as Kara Zor-El/Supergirl. In the first season, her nuisance value as Cat Grant’s assistant at CatCo provided much humour. However, the 24-year-old Kryptonian’s superpowers were exposed when she tried to save her “sister” Alex, who was in a plane that was about to crash. And then it became apparent that secrets ran in the family. Alex worked closely with J’onn J’onzz, a shape-shifting Martian survivor, for the Department of Extra-Normal Operations (DEO). Of course, her bravery soon put her in danger with other aliens visiting earth. Aside from working with the DEO, she is also helped by colleagues at CatCo: James Olsen, a former Daily Planet photographer, who is friends with Superman (Supergirl’s cousin), as well as Winslow “Winn” Schott jr, a tech genius. While Supergirl isn’t as intense or dark as Arrow and The Flash, she does find herself in terribly precarious situations. And Calista Flockhart, channelling her inner Miranda Priestly as Cat Grant, is marvellously bitchy and bold. Her wardrobe is as impressive as her razor-sharp lines. This season, we get to see Supergirl follow her heart. However, that first date with James doesn’t go according plan – there’s a new threat to Earth. Meanwhile, Kara is no longer at the beck and call of Cat, who, in warming up to her, feels a new position is in order. Unfortunately, Kara isn’t quite sure what that should be. The writers have taken more cunning measures to ensure viewers warm up to Supergirl by interweaving her storylines with that of Superman. So far, it lends much more gravitas to the storytelling.  DC’S LEGENDS OF TOMORROW ONE epic battle against Vandal Savage down... and another brews. This series was a real goosebump moment for fans. It had all their favourites: Martin Stein/ Firestorm (Victor Garber), Ray Palmer/Atom (Brandon Routh), Rip Hunter (Arthur Darvill), Sara Lance/White Canary (Caity Lotz), Jefferson Jackson/Firestorm (Franz Drameh), Chay-Ara/Edith Boardman/Kendra Saunders/Hawkgirl (Ciara Renée), Khufu/Joe Boardman/Carter Hall/Hawkman (Falk Hentschel), Mick Rory/Heat Wave/ Cronos (Dominic Purcell), Leonard Snart/Captain Cold (Wentworth Miller)  and Eobard Thawne/Reverse Flash (Matt Letscher). Season one was spurred on by sheer vengeance. Vandal Savage murdered time master, Rip Hunter’s family. Rip travels back in time to assemble a motley team of heroes and villains to stop Savage from destroying the world. As with a war of this time-travelling nature, there’s collateral damage along the way. At the end of the first season, Rip was seen riding the Waverider into the sun to destroy the last of three meteors that were to make Savage immortal. But death wasn’t keen to meet him so he returned to rally up the team for the next assignment. Is everyone on board? No? That’s okay, though. While we will miss Hawkgirl and Hawkman, the arrival of a fresh batch of heroes and villains is bound to keep fans happy. More so as one of them is Rex Tyler/Hourman (played by Patrick J Adams of Suits fame). He appeared as a founding member of the Justice Society of America at the end of season one, where he warned the team of their impending doom if they got back on their ship. Nathan Heywood/Citizen Steel (Nick Zano) and Amaya Jiwe/Vixen (Maisie Richardson-Sellers) are the other two new additions. On the villain front, there are some real badasses lined up. Tune in tomorrow night to find out who they are and what the next battle holds in store for our heroes. All these shows feature on Vuzu Amp’s (DStv channel 103) line-up at 8.30pm. Supergirl2 airs Tuesdays, The Flash3 Wednesdays, Arrow5 Thursdays and DC’s Legends of Tomorrow2 Fridays.