Mamelodi Sundowns'  crowning as African champions on Sunday was celebrated throughout the country. Soccer writer Mohau Ramashidja canvassed reactions from a few prominent football and sports people.   Edward ‘Magents’ Motale, Orlando Pirates’ legend I slept in the early hours of the morning. I believe it was around 2am or so. I just couldn’t sleep. My friends and I were just too overjoyed about the whole situation. They (Mamelodi Sundowns) have made the country proud. This will push other teams locally to take this competition very seriously. I remember when we won it; Kaizer Motaung (senior) came to the airport wearing an Orlando Pirates T-shirt just to welcome us. And that was a huge thing for me. Seeing him in that Pirates’ T-shirt said to me, there’s no room for jealousy or envy when your biggest rival on a domestic from does well on a continental level. It’s all about national pride. Such rivalry is unnecessary, really.  Danny Jordaan, Safa president I would like to congratulate Sundowns for their double achievement - becoming the Champions of Africa as well as qualifying for the Fifa Club World Cup which will take place in Tokyo, Japan from 8-18 December. This victory will serve South African football very well and will help in building a competitive Bafana Bafana side which is part of our Vision 2022. I want to wish Sundowns all the best in their next assignment and I am confident they are up for the challenge.  Mathew Booth, former Sundowns player We’ve been despondent because of Bafana Bafana’s poor performance on the continent and so, Sundowns’ victory in the Caf Champions League final is worth shouting about. They truly deserve it. They took it very seriously. They wanted it more and I believe that’s what worked for them. They were never intimidated by outside noises, which could have easily affected them ahead of this match (second leg), but they didn’t break. Kudos to them for bringing the star home.  Geoff Toyana - Highveld Lions (cricket) coach "We were travelling back from Kimberley on Sunday night, so I didn't get to watch the game, it was so nerve-wracking having to follow it on twitter all the way. I'm just very happy for everyone at the club, for Pitso and his coaching staff, big big congratulations. We've had Pirates win it a long time ago, so it's about time that trophy comes back to the country." Highveld Lions coach, Geoffrey Toyana, who despite being born and raised in Orlando East, has been a Sundowns supporter since the late 1980s. @extrastrongsa Independent Media