After nearly grabbing all three points in a World Cup qualifier in Burkina Faso, Bafana Bafana will have a new-look side in Tuesday’s friendly against Ghana in Durban. South Africa almost pulled off a miraculous victory in Ouagadougou on Saturday night after Dean Furman gave them an 80th-minute lead, but were denied by a stoppage-time equaliser by substitute Banou Diawara. The 1-1 result relieved some of the pressure on under-fire coach Shakes Mashaba – at least until next month’s second qualifier against Senegal in Polokwane. But Tuesday’s clash against Ghana’s “Black Stars” will give Mashaba an opportunity to look at some of his fringe players after he decided to accede to Mamelodi Sundowns’ request to release Keagan Dolly, Hlompho Kekana and Tebogo Langerman from national duty to ensure that they have enough time to prepare for Saturday’s Caf Champions League final first leg against Zamalek in Atteridgeville (3pm kickoff). In addition, central defender Eric Mathoho has also left the group to visit his family in Venda following the death of his younger brother last Monday. Mathoho decided to remain in Ouagadougou and play against Burkina Faso despite being granted leave to go back home. But their absence will see at least one change in the backline and two in midfield for the Ghana encounter. Kekana and Dolly were replaced by May Mahlangu and Oupa Manyisa in the closing stages of the Burkina Faso game, so the latter two could be in line for a start at the Moses Mabhida Stadium on Tuesday (7pm kickoff). Abbubaker Mobara is probably next in line to come in at centre back for Mathoho, but another candidate is Isaac Nhlapo, who was called up as a replacement for the injured Rivaldo Coetzee. Left back Langerman was on the bench in Ouagadougou, so his place could be taken by Aubrey Modiba. Bafana were rescued a number of times by goalkeeper Itumeleng Khune, who saved a penalty while another was shot over the crossbar, while he made several other fantastic blocks to keep the Burkinabe at bay for 90 minutes until Diawara’s equaliser. There were just too many defensive errors by the South African backline, and Khune will hope for a more assured performance in Durban from the rest of the defence. But it’s going to be a tough task against Ghana, who will have World Cup star Asamoah Gyan and Orlando Pirates defender Edwin Gyimah in their line-up, although Aston Villa forward Jordan Ayew and Leicester City striker Jeffrey Schlupp are injured. “We are aware of Ghana’s strength, typical of robust West Africans – they run and run, are physical and shoot from any angle,” Mashaba said in Durban on Monday.  ashfak.mohamed@inl.co.za  @ashfakmohamed