Washington - It&#x2019;s an issue that just won&#x2019;t go away: Hillary Clinton&#x2019;s emails during her term as secretary of state (2009-13).It has dogged her presidential campaign for a long time &#x2013; but what,exactly, is the core issue? Here is a summary:Clinton had a private email server in the basement of her home in Chappaqua, New York, that she used not just for personal correspondence, but also official business as America&#x2019;s top diplomat.As Politfact, a fact-checking project set up by several newspapers, explains it, citing an expert, such a practice was not strictlyforbidden. The expert noted that this provided the necessary flexibility for her to react quickly to a diplomatic crisis. However, what was questionable was Clinton&#x2019;s exclusive use of her private email account and not the State Department server that was more secure and less vulnerable to hacking attacks.The FBI, in its investigations, concentrated its inquiry on whether secret classified information had been passed through Clinton&#x2019;s private server. And if so, whether she had broken the law, in which case criminal charges could be raised.In December 2014, Clinton handed over some 30 000 emails to the State Department and the FBI. With few exceptions, these have in the meantime been published.However, Clinton also erased 31 000 further emails, those that she considered to be private matters. Among others, she said these mails concerned the wedding preparations for her daughter Chelsea, her mother&#x2019;s funeral, a yoga class and family vacation plans.These missing emails, however, have fuelled suspicions among her opponents and detractors that the information Clinton erased could cast doubts about her political competence.In July, the top federal law enforcement agency concluded its investigations, finding that in fact several classified documents were passed along through her private server.The FBI said Clinton ad acted extremely negligently &#x2013; but that no charges should be raised against her because there was no evidence that she had acted with criminal intent. The Justice Department concurred with the FBI&#x2019;s recommendation.Now, according to media reports, the FBI has come across more than 1 000 further emails that it says needs examining. The emails were not found on a Clinton computer, but rather on one confiscated from disgraced former New York congressman Anthony Weiner.Weiner is under investigation amid allegations of sending prurient messages to an underage girl. The connection to Clinton? Weiner is the estranged husband of Clinton&#x2019;s closest aide, Huma Abedin, who apparently repeatedly used her husband&#x2019;s computer.SAPA-dpa IOL News on Facebook IOL on Twitter