Johannesburg - Jason Whitehead has made his mark on the Cape Town food industry with more than 20 years working not only as a private chef to the rich and famous but at some of the city’s best eateries, both in the kitchen and front of house. Here he chats about his most memorable travel experiences.  First holiday memory? Going camping with my mom and dad in the family’s fully kitted-out Kombi almost every weekend.  Favourite place in South Africa? Cape Town.  Best holiday spot? Locally, Kolkol Mountain Lodge in the Overberg or Schoone Oordt Country House in Swellendam.  What have you learnt from your travels? Not to only go to the tourist spots, explore with the locals.  Ideal travelling partner? Someone with patience and a mutual love for exploring the foodie scene wherever we are.  Beach bum, culture vulture or adrenalin junkie? Definitely a foodie culture vulture. I have enough adrenalin in my day-to-day life.  Greatest travel luxury? Not having an itinerary.  Holiday reading A good thriller but I don’t read much when I’m on a holiday as I’m usually out exploring.  What place in the world has seduced you? I would have to say the south of France, but Thailand is also up there as one of my favourites.  Worst travel experience I don’t really have any, although 8-hour layovers are never pleasant.  Best hotel? I have travelled a lot in my life and nothing measures up to the Saxon Hotel, Villas & Spa in Sandhurst, Joburg  Favourite walk, swim, ride or drive? Driving through the south of France is incredible, and swimming in Ka Toa island in Thailand most memorable.  Best meal abroad? I know it sounds really simple but I had a truffle pizza in St Tropez that I still salivate about, even though I try and avoid gluten.  Favourite city? Even after living there for three years I am still in love with London. Stone Town in Zanzibar is also quite special.  Where to next? If I could spend a week on Thanda Island off the coast of Tanzania, I would be a very happy man! l Jason Whitehead has made his mark on the Cape Town food industry with more than 20 years working not only as a private chef to the rich and famous but at some of the city’s best eateries, both in the kitchen and front of house. The latest chapter in his career is the launch of a multi-level restaurant in Cape Town’s city centre, the cuisine being “east meets west”, an Italian-Japanese fusion. Independent Traveller