Having listened to and participated in many passionate discussions the wine industry with their colleagues in the South African hospitality sector, directors at Vula Afrika, Ian Manley and Aubrey Ngcungama realised that there was a genuine need for an organization that could reach out to black Africans who were interested in furthering their wine knowledge. READ: 195 Year old bottle of Grand Constance homecoming Together they created Black Cellar Club (BLACC). Gregory Mutambe, Chairman of BLACC, explains that the Club is a very personal initiative. "Like my fellow board members, wine was not something I grew up with. My parents never drank wine at the dinner table. Yes, there was alcohol but certainly not wine. This is the case for most black Africans." There is a huge emerging black middle class in South Africa and Africa for whom affordability is not an issue -  evident in high end imported products such as Champagne and Cognac. BLACC aims to raise the consumption per capita of wine by introducing more people to wine, as opposed to current drinkers consuming more. The focus is also on raising awareness with regards to correct use of alcohol and promotion of responsible drinking. They are also focusing on nurturing and supporting wine professionals and those wanting to enter the industry both in South Africa and in the rest of Africa. READ: How to have the perfect serve of Bisquit Cognac BLACC, is a voluntary association established and managed according to its Constitution and guided by its primary mandate and object. The object of BLACC is to advance a public benefit through social activities and cultural interests by achieving Black empowerment in the wine industry in South Africa and throughout the African continent. All profits generated by the Club will be strictly reinvested into the Club for the benefit of its members and in furthering the Club's object. The activities of the Club will include, but are not limited to; the provision of academic development for previously disadvantaged South Africans; providing educational initiatives centred on creating responsible drinking awareness; creating shared value in the South African wine industry and increasing inclusion of black South Africans in this sector of the economy. IOL adapted from press release