 Durban - Academic and entrepreneur Mamphela Ramphele has thrown her weight behind the fees must fall movement. At a Founders’ Day function at Durban Girls’ College last night, Ramphele said the protests at tertiary institutions were a long time coming. “Fees Must Fall was a wake-up call,” Ramphele told the Daily News on the sidelines of the function. She said in 1994, when the country became a democracy, she had predicted the changes that the ANC and then president Nelson Mandela wanted to make to education, like outcomes based education (OBE), would not work. “They were finishing the work of Verwoerd. Those decisions have come back to haunt the country in the fees-must-fall movement. I’m saddened that my predictions have come true. “I support the movement, but the violence and destruction of property that has become an integral part of it, I cannot,” Ramphele said. She dismissed the argument that there was not enough money to fund free education. Ramphele said there was about R600 billion budgeted for empowerment, but of this amount, as  much as R240bn was lost to misuse and corruption. She said the issue was not only about free education; student residences were also important, and money should be allocated to building them. This would spare students from sleeping in libraries because of accommodation problems. A  lack of political will to do the right thing was preventing free higher education, Ramphele said, adding that too many people were “in it for themselves”. She said the mentality of “it is my time to eat” needed to go. “People in power should be thinking, It is my time to serve’.” Germany and Finland were examples of countries that invested heavily in education and reaped the benefits, and Germany provided free education at its universities, she said. Ramphele said free education should not only be at tertiary institutions, but should be at primary and secondary education. In her speech the school, she said: “The political settlement that came in 1994 needed to come with an emotional settlement. “There was a lot of emotion felt by people who suffered under apartheid. Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) was insufficient and did not deal with socio-economic issues which affected the country. Not everyone who was affected by apartheid went to the TRC. “The only way is to have a discussion similar to the one had by holocaust survivors and Nazi perpetrators and their families.” Daily News