Durban - Another win, another clean sheet and Kaizer Chiefs ensured they kept their place at the top of the Absa Premiership standings after they eased past Ajax Cape Town 2-0 on Saturday night. Goals by Lorenzo Gordinho and George Lebese at the start and end of the second half in an entertaining and open game at Moses Mabhida Stadium were marred only by a pitch invasion by Chiefs supporters following the final whistle. The security arrangements for this Chiefs home game will be questioned, despite the presence of the usual perimeter marshalling of the pitch by security personnel. That investigation will be a side issue compared to the victory, which was Chiefs' fourth straight three-pointer. If there were still doubters of the Soweto giant's championship credentials before Saturday night, most of them would have been silenced. This first of three home matches to be hosted by Chiefs in Durban was a hit. Durbanites came to the party in full force, with traffic into the stadium backed up on Masabalala Yengwa Avenue even after the 6pm kick-off. The Chiefs marketing machinery did their bit with fan engagement on Friday and Saturday morning. Of course, the Soweto giants sitting atop the 16-team standings before the weekend action got under way also played a massive role in attracting 45 000 supporters. However, by the time this clash got under way, Chiefs were aware that Golden Arrows went three clear of them with a 1-0 victory over Chippa United in KwaMashu in an earlier game. As expected Chiefs covered the stadium in gold and black, and the vuvuzelas groaned incessantly whenever William Twala, Hendrick Ekstein and George Lebese got on to the front foot. It took a while for the teams to settle into a rhythm, with the break for 2018 Fifa World Cup qualifiers killing whatever momentum they enjoyed before it. However, psychologically Chiefs had the edge, with three straight clean-sheet wins before Saturday night, against a side that hadn't tasted victory this season. Before they truly found their footing, Chiefs were gifted a chance in the first minute when Ajax defender Mosa Lebusa allowed Michelle Katsvairo to sneak in, but he wasted possession by crossing aimlessly across goal. The Amakhosi returned the favour the next minute when a mix-up between Gordinho and Itumeleng Khune saw Nathan Paulse toe-poke the ball wide. It was pretty much Chiefs on the charge thereafter. Ekstein was among the busier attackers, chipping the ball into pockets of space and probing for gaps, as well as tracking back to defend on occasion. Eventually he contributed to the goal, winning the corner kick from which Gordinho headed in shortly after the interval. Ekstein might have scored after he jinked into the box, but as he was about to shoot, defender Erick Chipeta stuck his foot out like an octopus to push it for a corner. Off the half-cleared corner, George Maluleka's deep cross was met firmly by Gordinho for his third goal of the season. The goal only added to Chiefs' momentum, and they might have snuck in two more clear goals. Coach Steve Komphela sent on Siphiwe Tshabalala for Ekstein, Zambian striker Lewis Macha for Katsvairo and Bernard Parker for winger Twala in a bid to finish off the game. Tshabalala had a shot deflected by defender Rivaldo Coetzee on to the bar, and Macha pushed the follow-up effort wide. Earlier, Twala knocked the ball wide at the far post after Macha initiated a move with a square ball across goal. Ajax had their chances, but striker Prince Nxumalo, who replaced Paulse, shot wide for their best opportunity to equalise in the 89th minute. A speedy counter involving the fresh legs of Tshabalala and Macha eventually led to the killer goal in referee Kulasande Qongqo's optional time as Lebese rounded Brandon Petersen to close the game. There was still time for George Maluleka to be sent off, but that didn't hamper Chiefs at all, although he will be suspended for next weekend's Telkom Knockout opener against Maritzburg United in Joburg.  kamlesh.gosai@inl.co.za 