THE KARDASHIANS have built their fortunes largely on the successes of their TV series, Keeping Up with the Kardashians, and spin-offs thereof: Kourtney and Kim Take Miami, Kourtney and Kim Take New York, Khloé & Lamar, Kourtney and Khloé Take the Hamptons and Dash Dolls. At first, it was mostly about momager, Kris Jenner, and her three cash cows: Kim, Kourtney and Khloé. Of course, now that Kendall and Kylie, her two daughters with Bruce Jenner (now known as Caitlyn), are all grown up, they have also been thrust into the fashionista limelight. Not that they are complaining about owning those catwalks and being sought after for modelling gigs. Meanwhile, brother Rob’s conspicuous absence hasn’t gone unnoticed. More so, after his downward spiral since splitting from Rita Ora in 2012. However, thanks to his publicised romance with Blac Chyna, who is now pregnant with his child, he is back on the radar of the paparazzi. Even more surprising, he agreed to his own reality TV show, Rob & Chyna, on E! Of course, mama bear couldn’t be prouder of Rob coming out of his shell and embracing the Kardashian legacy. But, having watched the TV show, I’m not sure this was the best move. The best way to sum up my feelings is by quoting Abraham Lincoln: “Better to remain silent and be thought a fool than to speak and to remove all doubt”. If this series confirmed anything, it is that Rob is an insufferable manchild. He is immature, selfish and, at times, abusive. Blac Chyna is the opposite. She is refreshingly fun, level-headed, family- orientated and responsible. Aside from the awkward fact that the model/entrepreneur was engaged to rapper Tyga (he is now dating Kylie), with whom she has a son, it seems that the Kardashian clan have welcomed her into the fold.   Her chats with Kim, Khloé and Kourtney are indicative of this. Heck, Kylie recently threw son King Cairo Stevenson a second Ferrari-themed birthday bash. Back to the series. Viewers got a glimpse into how this couple connect with one another. And how they are preparing to welcome the addition to the family. However, Rob’s decision to take on several business ventures at the same time has created some strain in his relationship. With both of them living in separate homes, it certainly doesn’t help the situation. More so, when Rob, feeling overwhelmed by a fight, decides to block everyone and escape to Las Vegas for a few days. He is often withdrawn or bemoaning the fact that his health isn’t where he wants it to be. Wearing his trademark cap, T-shirt, shorts and sneakers, he doesn’t do much to help change his image either. Poor Chyna tries to get through to him but, I swear she has the patience of a Buddha sometimes. With shooting of Keeping up with the Kardashians grinding to a halt following Kim’s robbery in Paris, let’s hope this is the only lifeline to the Kardashian soap opera fans have come to love. Maybe a reality series with just Chyna, or a major personality overhaul for Rob, if there is to be a second season.