CATTLE DRIVE. Written by Nicholas and Luke Ellenbogen. Directed by Jule Heidelbach, with Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi, Motheo Madisa and Tafara Nyatsanza. At Rosebank Theatre until Saturday. TRACEY SAUNDERS reviews  THERE’S’s an African proverb that says, “until the lion tells his side of the story, the tale of the hunt will always glorify the hunter.” African stories are rarely seen on local stages, and tales of the lion are even rarer. In this case the lion is a cattle driver and the tale is of an epic cattle drive through Botswana to Johannesburg at the beginning of the Second World War - a seldom told historical journey. Pivotal to the piece is Mkhwanazi, an actor with a physical theatre vocabulary which allows him to epitomise the quiet feline grace of a lioness as effortlessly as he portrays a wild horse. He is an embittered Cattle Driver, revered, reviled and incredibly lonely. The circumstances of his current situation are revealed slowly in the play and his final journey begins with an encounter with his estranged younger brother. Separated by 16 years, differing paternities and varied educations, the gulf between the two is as wide as the vast distance they are destined to cross with a large herd of cattle. The role of cattle in the cultural and social life of the Tswana population, a central theme, is in stark contrast to the mere economic value placed on them by the mining companies in Johannesburg. The importance of cattle in Botswana is confirmed by the fact that aside from 2007 and 2013 there have been more cattle than people in the country. Audiences will be familiar with Mkhwanazi from his award winning performance in a A Man and a Dog. He has performed in several of Ellenbogen’s plays including the popular play about cricket, Slips. The other two members of the cast will be less familiar but not for long. Madisa has already proved his mettle in several AFDA production and his portrayal of the younger brother, desperate for his brother’s approval is heart-warming. Nyatsanza continues to delight following his debut at the Rosebank Theatre. His role as the narrator, perched up above the action of the piece doesn’t call for the physicality of the other two performers but he has a presence which provides a steady hand and guides the narrative with a steady hand. He relates a “story of a war between the old ways and the new, compelling in its simplicity” and does so with the assistance of a handful of traditional musical instruments and a beguiling charm. Thanks to the ingenuity of Ellenbogen’s design he occupies a platform above, but not removed from the dancing and singing on the stage. This is a delightful piece of theatre, gentle and unassuming and although few of us will relate to the journey of a cattle driver, the family dynamics, buried resentments and long held grudges are all too familiar. The denouement avoids a trite “happy ever after” reconciliatory moment and while there is a lingering sadness there is something satisfying about the personal resolution that the younger brother arrives at. Don’t be surprised if after watching this you are tempted to pick up the phone and settle that ancient argument, or bury a hatchet you have carried for years. l 072 3166 133, www.webtickets.co.za 