HIGHER education remained in disarray as the university fee increase impasse continued yesterday amid often violent protests on most campuses around the country. Activities at UCT and UWC were disrupted, while classes at CPUT were suspended for a second day this week. At Wits University, protesters clashed with police and private security yesterday as matters came to a head after more than three weeks of heated demonstrations. Last night, Wits vice-chancellor Adam Habib said management were discussing whether classes should continue today. Habib was adamant the university would not shut down, but a decision was taken last night for the university to be closed until Friday, when a general assembly would be held. In Cape Town, about 200 CPUT students travelled from the university’s Bellville campus to District Six to join their peers in protest at CPUT’s Cape Town campus. At Cape Town train station, police blocked the protesters from entering the city centre. The students broke into smaller groups as police, including its public order policing unit, followed them as they moved from the Parade to Keizersgracht Street. Later they gathered at the university’s multi-purpose hall to regroup. CPUT spokesperson Lauren Kansley said a decision has been made to keep classes suspended today based on ongoing security assessments. The university remains open for all other operational activities. UCT student activist Simon Rakei confirmed two more  students were taken into custody by the university’s private security yesterday. “The same circumstances (applied) as with six students arrested yesterday by the private police. They had no warrant and no charges were brought against the students. “We are still waiting for those charges to be confirmed, as today charges against the first group were dropped,”  said Rakei. He confirmed one of the students arrested yesterday was Msixole Mlandu, interdicted from stepping on campus, along with fellow student Sbusisi Mpendulo. “There is a video of the incident and you can clearly see the violent way the security engaged the students. We have contacted the security company’s line manager with regard to their code of conduct and will be filing a report with the university as well,” added Rakei. He said the company had received numerous individual calls regarding the conduct of their guards/security. UCT vice-chancellor Max Price said the continuation of their academic programme will not depend on talks with protesting students. Campuses will be kept open despite escalating protests. Disciplinary proceedings would be instituted against protesting students who forced others to leave class or disrupted their learning, Price said. The charges against five expelled students would not be dropped. He said negotiations with students at the weekend fell flat after they would not sign an agreement, and they asked for the university to remain closed for another two weeks at least. The agreement would have seen an Institutional Reconciliation and Transformation Commission (IRTC) reviewing the events leading up to the Shackville protests, and the five expelled students would have been considered by the IRTC panel for some form of amnesty. “About decolonisation, transformation, sexual assault, gender identities… if they feel we are not addressing them rapidly enough or effectively enough, we are happy to have a tribunal or panel review the progress. But we are not willing to keep the university closed, while all of that happens,” Price said. In a statement, UWC’s executive management said student protest action continued yesterday morning. “While the protest has  generally been peaceful, there have been some disruptions. University management remains committed to engage in a dialogue with students to deliberate on their grievances,” management said. An open invitation has been sent to student leadership, including representatives of the protesting students, for a multi-stakeholder engagement. In the meantime, the academic programme continues as usual. Stellenbosch University spokesperson Susan van der Merwe said no disruptions were reported on campus. ● Independent Online reporter Rudzani Matshili, 22, was shot with a rubber bullet at Wits University while she was covering the #FeesMustFall protests. “I was expecting the situation to get out of hand. I was petrified. I only realised about 10 minutes later that I had been shot and I wasn’t feeling any pain. “After seeing blood... that was when I realised that I had been shot,” Matshili said, who was talking to police at the time. “When students started throwing stones at the police, I was still talking to the police spokesperson, trying to find out how many cops were injured earlier. “So I just stood there with him screaming, and there was a point where I fell but stood up again. I was hiding behind him pulling him by his clothes.” Matshili has received  medical attention and is  recovering. 