HANDS OF STONE DIRECTOR: Jonathan Jakubowicz CAST: Edgar Ramirez, Robert de Niro, Usher Raymond, Rubéns Blades, Pedro Perez, John Turturro, Ana de Armas, Ellen Barkin CLASSIFICATION: 16 LNSV RUNNING TIME: 111 minutes RATING: 3 stars (out of 5)  BY THERESA SMITH As much a clichéd sports movie as an unfocused character study, Hands of Stone is the story of boxing champion Roberto Durán and his relationship with his legendary trainer, Ray Arcel. Panamanian Durán (Ramirez) held world titles in four different weight classes, and competed across five decades, but will always be best known, perhaps infamous even, for abruptly forfeiting his welterweight title mid-fight against Sugar Ray Leonard (Usher does a fascinating combination of cocky and confused). The character study part of the film is very much about painting a picture of Durán the man leading up to this particular incident and how he coped afterwards. Ramirez is engaging as Durán, much more handsome than any boxer ever gets to stay in real life, with charm and a swagger, at time intense, but also with a sense of fun. When Duran makes it to the top of his game, he wants to just wallow in the wonder and Ramirez manages to not appear self-indulgent.But, because there is just so much biography to get through, the camera doesn’t linger enough on him to allow us under Durán’s skin. Ramirez gets it right a few times – like in a key scene in which Durán discusses with Arcel how he feels about meeting his father – but then the camera careens off to the next scene and we are dragged along. Director Jakubowicz tries his hardest to draw a parallel between Durán’s inner struggles and the contentious political relationship between the US and Panama at that time, but it’s a bit of a stretch.The film starts with child Durán (David Arosemena) to set the scene of American-occupied Panama, then quickly skips to Durán making his professional debut. It is off-putting to have the adult actor (Ramirez) pursue the schoolgirl Felicidad (De Armas), but it is important to remember that Durán was still a teenager at this point. We see how Durán’s relationship with Arcel (De Niro) develops and deepens and his changing relationship with childhood friend Chaflan (Óscar Jaenada), but eventually there is just so much detail crammed into the film that your attention wanders. There’s a sub-plot with Arcel and his relationship with the Mafia, plus his relationship with his estranged daughter and some detail brewing about the commercialisation of boxing at the time and, and, and... Still, the actual boxing matches are well-filmed, with excellent sound design really bringing you right into the ring and if you only know the name Durán, then this is a good way of learning more. Plus, this is a good calling card for the under-rated Ramirez who shows he can totally lead a film. If you liked Southpaw or Warrior, you will like this.