Cape Town - Colour plays a major role in our everyday lives, from branding and interior design to how we feel each day. It can even influence where you choose to go on holiday. If you’re considering a tropical island beach holiday this summer the first colours that likely spring to mind are blue and green; green for the palm trees that line the beaches and blue for the crystal clear seas and clear blue skies. Mix that with crimson red and cherry blossom pink for an idyllic setting that oozes fun and relaxation. Leisure travel specialist Pentravel understands how significant an impact colour has on one’s emotions, especially when it comes to experiencing an island holiday. What would snorkelling be without turquoise water and colourful fish, or sundowners without a golden sunset? Mauritius, Seychelles and the Maldives all tick the boxes in terms of colour-enriched experiences. But with so many options of deep-blue seas and white sands to choose from, where do these islands rate in terms of what’s best?  Best beaches If you’re looking for picture perfect, crystal-clear blue warm water, shade, sun and soft powdery sand, head for the Seychelles. Anse Lazio beach on the island of Praslin was voted the world’s fourth best beach by TripAdvisor. Its hypnotic setting is ideal for romantics looking for their slice of paradise. The distinctively hued red granite boulders and the soft blue, white and green setting is absolute bliss. A stay at hotels like Paradise Sun on another beautiful beach, means you’ll get to experience this world-renowned destination intimately.  A photo posted by Wojtek W. (@pirograf) on Oct 6, 2016 at 10:12am PDT   Best snorkelling Exploring the underwater world of the Indian Oceans will excite all your colour senses and, according to Conde Nast Traveller, the Maldives tops the list of best islands to snorkel. Comprising a chain of 26 atolls and over 1 000 islands, it’s a geological miracle. It never had an ice age, so the diversity of marine life is immense. You’ll get to see anything from dolphins and turtles to 20 different multi-coloured parrot fish. We suggest staying at Club Med’s only overwater bungalow resort in the world, Kani. Floating buoys mark the trail you follow from the beach to the snorkelling site and back. You’ll never want to take your head out of the water again.  A photo posted by 🐝 Dr ka | Plastic Surgeon 💜 (@kourocheamini) on Oct 24, 2016 at 7:15am PDT   Best sunsets An island holiday isn’t complete without an explosion of gold, pink, amber, burgundy, indigo and violet that only a dramatic Indian Ocean sunset can deliver. From the shores of any of the gorgeous archipelago islands it’s the array of colours, silhouettes and vistas you’ll never forget.  A photo posted by ♛Kristine Sæther (@kristinesaether_) on Jul 10, 2016 at 12:36pm PDT  We recommend the Trou aux Biches Resort Spa on the Troux aux Biches beach along the North West Coast of Mauritius. The beach is world renowned for its sunsets and your beach-facing suite and terrace is the ultimate place to enjoy the show.  Best adventures If you or your family loves adventure, head for the blue, white and red colours of the French island of Reunion. It’s home to one of the world’s most accessible active volcanoes, Piton de la Fournaise, and from your hotel at the five-star LUX* Ile de la Reunion you might even get the chance to see the Piton erupting.  A photo posted by Ambr' 🌙 (@ambrelpine) on Oct 21, 2016 at 8:17am PDT  It’s completely safe to view and is a once-in-a-lifetime experience you’ve never seen before; glowing rivers of lava flow silently down the mountainside and sizzle into the sea. If you love to explore, there is no shortage of world-class trekking and canyoning as well as waterfall and colourful bird spotting on Reunion. Surfing is also highly recommended thanks to its aqua-blue warm water, exhilarating reef breaks and stunning scenery.  Best Diving Shandrani Resort and Spa, in the unspoilt south region of Mauritius, is one of the best places to access some of the Indian Ocean’s top diving spots. The hotel is lapped by the protected Blue Bay Marine Park, which is where all the dives from the hotel take place. And the PADI dive school at Shandrani is the only accredited National Geographic dive school on the island.  A photo posted by Blondetrotter (@blondetrotter) on Sep 19, 2016 at 1:20am PDT  Its aqua-blue water is crystal clear with a depth of 5-6m providing a feast for the eyes with about 40 coral species and roughly 70 new fish species recently discovered in the marine park. This park is a real underwater Eden. “The Indian Ocean’s archipelagos are rich and vibrant and beckon travellers to visit their sun-kissed shores all year round,” says Sean. “A seven-day, all-inclusive visit to Mauritius, Seychelles or Maldives is an opportunity to change your scenery, say goodbye to gloomy landscapes and immerse yourself in an exciting fuss-free holiday to satisfy all your colour senses and make you feel reinvigorated and alive. It makes for great Instagram and Facebook photos too.” Independent Traveller * Visit www.pentravel.co.za