Durban - In a dramatic turn of events, the forensic report into Mjindi Farming “mistakenly” found its way before the meeting of the standing committee on public accounts (Scopa) on Wednesday only for it to be immediately withdrawn. The report has yet to be made public despite it being completed three years ago, a move that has now prompted the DA to call on incumbent MEC Themba Mthembu to not keep it confidential any longer. DA MPL Mark Steele said the final report into the administration of the department should be released by Mthembu and action taken against those implicated. “It is up to the MEC to make the report known to the public as a matter of urgency. It can’t be left sitting confidential any longer,” Steele said after the officials had informed Scopa about withdrawal of the forensic report. Head of department, Siphiwe Mkhize, said the report was not meant to be brought to the committee. “The official who delivered documents made a mistake,” Mkhize said. However, a sanitised version of the report without names of implicated officials except for one who no longer works for the departmental was presented to the meeting. Steele maintained that the sanitised report was not sufficient for the purposes of holding the department to account. “There is no use whatsoever in conducting expensive forensic audits if disciplinary action is not taken based on their outcomes. “The report is now complete and the DA wants to see consequences for the alleged irregular use of public funds,” he said. But, Sipho Nkosi, committee member chairing the meeting at the time the report was withdrawn, said while it was not mandatory for Scopa to make a demand to the MEC, he would release the report as soon he was ready. “Even if we make that call, if the document is not ready for release for the public, he would not do so. We hope the members of portfolio committee (of agriculture and rural development) members will take care of that,” Nkosi said. The sanitised report, which had its presentation causing confusion to Scopa members, was subsequently referred to the portfolio committee responsible for the department’s oversight. This came after ANC MPL Sipho Gcabashe asked that the portfolio committee “deal with the department to correct whatever is confusing us and then we (Scopa) get a report”. Daily News