INDEPENDENT MEDIA has announced the appointment of three regional executive editors: Gasant Abarder (Western Cape), Kevin Ritchie (Gauteng) and Alan Dunn (KwaZulu-Natal). These appointments have been made in the regions in which Independent’s print titles have significant readership and operations. The appointments have been made in the wake of the resignation of former group chief content officer Karima Brown, who played a national role. In terms of its strategic repositioning, Independent took the decision, after consideration, to appoint regional executive editors rather than replacing the position vacated at national level. All three candidates appointed to these positions have extensive journalistic experience, and have all recently been editors at major daily titles in the regions  mentioned. Abarder, appointed regional executive editor in the Western Cape, has worked in TV and radio, but has spent most of his career in print media. He was part of the founding team of the Daily Voice and was deputy editor there, then became Cape Argus editor in 2009. He left Independent for a brief spell and returned in 2013 as editor of the Cape Times. In 2015, he returned to the Cape Argus as editor. In 2015, Abarder oversaw the acclaimed student #FeesMustfall co-edited edition in  October, the #DignityProject (a three-week series about homeless people in Cape Town) in 2016 and also started a weekly column, “Friday Files”, profiling movers and shakers in the Western Cape who make an impact in and beyond the boundaries of the region. “This exciting new opportunity allows me to step back from being involved in newsrooms for almost two decades, and to plough my experience and knowledge into the strategic management of Independent Media’s titles in the Western Cape. “It is an opportune moment as Indy is on the brink of a revolutionary transformation of all of its platforms – in both print and digital. “I’ll be working closely with the teams in editorial, marketing, advertising and our newly formed specialised content business units to further enhance the already incredible and well-established brands in the Independent Media stable.” Ritchie, who has been appointed executive regional editor in Gauteng, is a 25-year veteran of Independent, having edited the group’s smallest and biggest daily newspapers, the Diamond Fields Advertiser (DFA) in Kimberley and most recently The Star in Johannesburg, a flagship publication in the group. This is among a host of other senior editorial, commercial and managerial appointments, making him eminently suitable for this appointment. “I never thought anything could be better than editing The Star for the last two-and-a-half years, but this job has the potential to do just that. I’m looking forward to serving the editors in the region and their staff,” said Ritchie. Dunn, appointed KwaZulu-Natal regional executive editor, is a 43-year veteran with the group. During his illustrious career, he has served Independent in various capacities and worked in Johannesburg, Pretoria, Cape Town and Durban. Dunn has also worked in Washington DC, Windhoek and has served as parliamentary editor for Independent. “I appreciate the honour of this post, and accept the challenge. I’ve had many assignments in a rich career, and this one excites me no less than the others,” said Dunn. In welcoming the three editors into these positions, executive chairman Dr Iqbal Survé said the digital first, print best strategy required the repositioning of the regional titles of the group and leadership at a regional level would be an important driver in the continued quest for excellence in a rapidly changing media environment. “The extensive experience of the regional executive editors enables them to contribute to this exercise, as  they can focus on the regional titles, spot replication, contribute to quality control of  the brands, amongst other  contributions. “All three of them have impressed me with their commitment to excellent journalism and I am so pleased that they have accepted these strategic editorial positions. “I have every confidence in them as they take up their new roles in Independent Media,” said Survé.  New editor for The Young Independents Independent Media has also announced the appointment of the first editor of its online platform for millennials, The Young Independents. Saajida Francis, an Honours journalism graduate from Rhodes University, with a solid digital background, will spearhead the company’s youth platform. “This is an extremely exciting time for Independent Media as we roll out our various offerings for the youth market. Saajida is a highly talented young woman with immense skill. Her appointment is in line with our objective to nurture and develop young talent,” said Survé. Francis expressed her excitement at having been appointed the first editor of The Young Independents. “I am incredibly overwhelmed by this opportunity. As a black female millennial who has always been intrigued by the evolution of the digital sphere, I see this as an opportunity to enhance the youth experience through The Young Independents. “The Young Independents will proudly provide an authentic, unapologetic and real narrative to young South Africans who seek an honest and accurate media  perspective. “What is truly exciting about this opportunity is realising that South Africa’s population is largely made up of young people: those who are below the age of 35 years constitute about 66 percent of the total population. The Young Independents will be an active agent in guiding their digital experience through solutions- based journalism. “With a talented team of phenomenal individuals, The Young Independents is truly destined for great success, and I am humbled and sincerely grateful to be a part of this journey”, said Francis.  Aziz Hartley takes over the reins at Cape Argus Newspaper stalwart Hartley has been appointed editor of the Cape Argus. The position comes into effect immediately. Hartley, who is the current editor of Weekend Argus Sunday, has a long history with the company. In 1979, he joined the group as a general cleaner and gradually worked his way through the ranks – from messenger to editorial assistant, newsroom secretary, reporter and night news editor. In March 2015, he was appointed deputy editor of the Cape Times, working alongside editor Aneez Salie. Hartley replaces Abarder. “It is indeed a huge honour and I am humbled to be stepping into the shoes of someone I personally regard as an exceptional journalist and one of South Africa’s finest editors. My appointment as Gasant Abarder’s successor is also a tribute to him and his visionary leadership. “The paper is embedded in Cape Town’s landscape and is part of the daily life of people of this beautiful city. Gasant and the Argus team have done a wonderful job leading a team of talented journalists in servicing the readers, subscribers and advertisers of this great newspaper. It is my intention to take the Argus to even greater heights,” said Hartley. Cape Argus, which next year celebrates its 160th anniversary, is one of the leading publications in the Independent Media stable and a household name in thousands of homes across the Cape Peninsula. “Aziz’s solid news background, his tenacity and great management skills will most definitely benefit the future plans for this publication as we implement our digital first, print best strategy. “I wish him every success, with yet another exciting challenge in his career with Independent Media,” said Survé.  New editor for Weekend Argus Sunday Joining Independent Media in its key appointments is Yunus Kemp, as the editor of the Sunday edition of Weekend Argus, with immediate effect. Kemp, who was the acting editor of Business Report until recently, replaces Hartley. Survé said: “This is an exciting time for our weekend publications. Yunus is one of our brightest talents and this opportunity will hone both his editorial, commercial and digital skills. “His international experience and exposure will definitely benefit the publication.” Kemp has worked in various capacities at Independent Media since 2006. Last year, he completed a 10-month international exchange programme in China. “It is a tremendous honour and privilege for me to take over the custodianship of the Sunday Argus. My stint as acting Business Report editor, as well as my roles in various senior leadership positions at the Cape Argus and Daily Voice over the years, will stand me in good stead in this exciting new endeavour. “I inherit a product and team nurtured by my predecessors, Aziz Hartley and Chiara Carter, who I am excited to work with as part of the larger Argus family,” said Kemp.  Independent Media consolidates and strengthens its  business portfolio Independent will further boost its business portfolio with the appointment of  Adriana Senekal as the new editor of Business Report and executive editor of Independent Media’s business content. Senekal, a seasoned journalist with extensive experience in the financial, commercial and private sectors, replaces Ellis Mnyandu, who left the group in 2015. Business Report is currently the largest business newspaper on the African content, including Personal Finance and IOL Business, with over one million readers. “Adriana brings to the portfolio her commercial, private sector and business analytical experience. In the short period during her consultancy to Independent Media, she has made a solid contribution towards the growth of the business sector in Independent Media. “We have no doubt that she will take this sector to even greater heights in the newly redesigned Independent Media,” said Survé. She has extensive experience in the financial and economic sector, and consulted to various blue-chip companies. “I am very excited to bring my skills, my solid network base and my passion for the financial  and economic sector to this exciting portfolio. “I’d like to thank Dr Survé and the executives of Independent Media for the opportunity, and look forward to making a meaningful contribution to the growth of the company,” said Senekal. Senekal’s appointment comes into effect immediately. Business Report is South Africa’s most widely read ﬁnancial newspaper. Because it appears in four of the Independent group’s daily titles (Cape Times, The Star, Pretoria News and The Mercury) and three of its weekend titles, it has an unrivalled national footprint and its readers are drawn from the business communities of all of South Africa’s four major economic hubs – Cape Town, Durban, Johannesburg and Pretoria. Its readers range from private investors, entrepreneurs and managers from the shop ﬂoors of the smallest companies to the executive suites of the largest companies, to top government bureaucrats and cabinet ministers. They read Business Report because they cannot afford not to, if they want to make informed decisions backed up by the latest information and analysis.