Percy Tau The Lad’s got talent Age: 22 Club: Mamelodi Sundowns Hometown: Witbank Johannesburg - “A Star. At 22? Come on.” This might have come out as a question but the tone in Percy Tau’s voice made it clear it was a statement because the 22-year-old doesn’t doubt himself, especially now that he is three hours away from being an African champion. The star he was talking about is the one that will sit on top of the badge of either Mamelodi Sundowns or Zamalek after the CAF Champions League final to be played over two legs, starting tomorrow at 3pm at Lucas Moripe Stadium, with the return leg in Alexandria on Sunday night next week. But the Sundowns’ midfielder could also have been talking about his star qualities. In the six months he spent at his previous club Witbank Spurs, the town where he was born, he was given more responsibility in a club that was fighting for promotion. He grew in that competitive environment, more so than in Sundowns' reserve team, where he spent most of his time as a 19-year-old in 2014 in spite of being promoted to the first XI that year, too. “I asked to be loaned out because I needed game time,” Tau said. “The coach (Pitso Mosimane) didn’t like the idea that I was going home. But I told him that I needed to go and play football. He had a picture of what I would turn out like when I am home. Tau continued: “In Witbank, they only saw me play football from eight years to 16 because I joined Sundowns after that. I knew that by going home, people from my township will get to see me play football right in front of them and see how much I have matured. “I came with the tag of being a Sundowns’ player, so I had to be extra good and work twice as hard. I always felt that I didn’t do enough or show enough gratitude for the opportunity. “I owe (Themba Mafa - the Spurs chairman) a lot.” Tau was drafted into the Brazilians’ Champions League squad at the end of last season on his return. Seeing the faith Mosimane had in him, going from playing in the first division to the Champions League, pushed the talented Tau to do even more. He played an instrumental role in the back-to-back wins over Zamalek in the group stage. In Cairo, he ran the five-time African champions’ defenders ragged and technically scored in the 1-0 win in Atteridgeville. It was his cross that Ali Gabr deflected into his own net. The question of whether he claims that goal elicited a big smile from Tau, who was playful and funny throughout this interview. He exhibited high levels of confidence, even referring to himself in the third person. “Sundowns signed me when I was 16 and took me to school,” Tau said. “I am grateful. In a year I have gone from being on loan, playing in the NFD, to returning to Sundowns where I have played in the PSL and the Champions League. Come on. I must be doing something good. “I look at that and say: Percy, this is the international level. My boy, you are slightly getting better’. I need to be at this level. “It feels good to say that at my age I have played against one of the best teams on the continent and I am this close to being an African champion.” @extrastrongsa The Star