Zamalek players swaggered into OR Tambo International airport where they were greeted with a low-key reception on Wednesday. It was a huge contrast to the resounding send-off they received in Cairo on Tuesday night when they left for the first leg of the CAF Champions League final against Mamelodi Sundowns on Saturday at Lucas Moripe Stadium. The low-key reception reminded the club that they are no longer in a place where they are kings. But they are confident because they are in a tournament they have ruled five times, having lost once in it's final. While the players walked with confidence, the club arrived limping with only 14 infield players and three goalkeepers available. It’s the same problem that Sundowns’ have because of injuries and the calendar that runs from August to May, overlapping to two seasons in the CAF calendar that runs from February to November. That’s not the only thing that these two clubs share, they both have Africa Cup of Nations winning Zambians. The Brazilians have Kennedy Mweene while Zamalek have Emmanuel Mayuka.    “Normally we (I and Kennedy) talk all the time. But (with this big final approaching), I am just waiting for Saturday after the game then we will meet up and talk,” Mayuka said.  Mayuka joined the Egyptian giants at the start of this year on a three-year contract after stints in Israel, Switzerland, England and France. “It's exciting to be here,” Mayuka said. “I have been through so many places. This is a new experience for me. I am just looking to play my part and help the team succeed.” How Sundowns and Zamalek talk about this final shows the difference between the two clubs. For Sundowns, this is an opportunity to make history by becoming the first generation to be African champions. There is less pressure on them because this is only their second appearance in the final. For Zamalek, this is about continuing on their rich history as they chase a sixth Champions League title. Al-Ahly overtook them as Kings on Africa in the last decade. Al-Ahly had won only three Champions League titles in 2002 when Zamalek sat on five. But they remained stranded there while Al-Ahly took their tally to a record eight. Moamen Soliman, Zamalek’s coach, promised to resign should he not guide his club to success in the continent after taking over a side that lost the league to Al-Ahly. “The coach will win this cup,” Ahmed Mortada Mansour, Zamalek director and son of the club’s chairman, said. “I heard about what the coach said in Egypt. I have trust in him and the players. It’s more important to win the Champions League than the league. But we didn’t lose by a huge margin in the league which shows we weren’t that far off. But for me, the Champions League is number one.” Mayuka, just like Mweene, has experienced what it's like to be an African champion with their country. On Sunday next week, one of them will become an African champion with their club as well. “Sundowns are a good team,” Mayuka said. “They play good football. We know that they are a good team. We just have to do our own thing and play our own game. We know that it won’t be easy… We are both in the final so that means that these are the two best teams in the continent.” Independent Media