So near, and yet so far for Bafana Bafana. When Dean Furman fired them into the lead in Ouagadougou on Saturday night, South Africa were just 10 minutes away from celebrating a famous win. Shakes Mashaba’s rejigged starting XI had done the job up to that point, even though they had goalkeeper extraordinaire Itumeleng Khune to thank for keeping a clean sheet up to that point as the Kaizer Chiefs star saved an early penalty and made several blocks throughout the night. The introduction of in-form Wits striker Eleazar Rodgers from the international wilderness was a much-needed development for the Bafana Bafana team. The tall Capetonian provided the steel and physical presence that has been lacking in SA teams under Mashaba, especially when they travel to the rest of the continent against big central defenders. But sadly for Bafana fans and Rodgers, he was a lone target without any real support from the midfield. The former Santos front-man had knocked down a number of balls into the path of where Thulani Serero and Mpho Makola should’ve been, but they hardly pushed forward and many opportunities were wasted. Serero was in a free role as a “false striker” or No 10 and had a few clever touches, including putting Makola into space inside the Burkinabe box, but the Orlando Pirates star lost possession – something he was guilty of far too often for an international footballer. But Serero was not influential enough on the night, and faded further in the humid conditions the longer the game wore on. Defensive ace Eric Mathoho was also far from his best, and was caught out for a lack of pace a number of times by Burkina Faso right winger Préjuce Nakoulma, while striker Jonathan Pitroipa’s movement was also difficult to handle. Perhaps it was the incorrect call for Mathoho to play following the death of his younger brother on Monday, but the Kaizer Chiefs centreback wanted to remain in camp despite Mashaba granting him permission to go home. Left back Thabo Matlaba also left Mathoho often exposed at the edge of the area as he didn’t track back quickly enough to help mark Nakoulma. Mashaba, though, opted to recall Ramahlwe Mphahlele ahead of Abbubaker Mobara at right back, and the Chiefs defender had a tough night at the August 4 Stadium. Mphahlele was partly to blame for the equaliser when he didn’t step up for the offside trap, which saw an unmarked Banou Diawara get a feint touch past Khune in the first minute of stoppage time. The fact that Mobara marked Brazilian superstar Neymar out of the game at the Rio Olympics should ensure that he should be a first-choice for Bafana. On attack, Keagan Dolly wasn’t his usual vibrant self as he battled to get his foot on the ball. He is most effective when he is the central figure in a team’s offensive plan – like he is at Sundowns and the SA Under-23 team – and he should’ve been utilised in the Serero role. Dean Furman was solid in a defensive midfield role, and took his goal brilliantly after Rodgers’ powerful goal-bound header from Makola’s corner was cleared and fell to Furman, who fired his shot through a bunch of Burkinabe defenders. But it was ultimately the marvellous Khune who secured Bafana a point, saving Pitroipa’s dubious penalty – Mathoho’s hand-ball was outside the box – and also surviving Alain Traore’s late penalty miss that was blasted high over the crossbar. On the balance of play, Bafana were somewhat fortunate to escape Ouagadougou with a draw, although Mashaba and his team would’ve been disappointed that they conceded in stoppage time after taking the lead in the 80th minute and holding out for another 10 without conceding. At least Bafana scored, but they cannot continue to rely on Khune to rescue them. Mashaba must reconsider his attacking configuration and personnel to play off Rodgers and introduce some pace and flair to the game. Tuesday’s friendly against Ghana in Durban is the perfect opportunity to have a look at striker Thobani Mncwango and midfielder May Mahlangu ahead of the next Fifa World Cup qualifier at home against Senegal on November 12.  ashfak.mohamed@inl.co.za  @ashfakmohamed