The former 'Baywatch' actress has launched a 'Sensual Revolution' campaign with Rabbi Shmuley Boteach to try and educate people on the dangers of online pornography. Pammie insists the volume of X-rated material is damaging men of all ages and she has been in relationships where her partners would lock themselves away in the bathroom to get sexual gratification from the internet rather than make love to her. During an interview on 'This Morning', she shared: "People have porn addictions. You have this woman who is living and breathing and lying in your bed and you are in the bathroom with a computer, there's something going on that's not normal. And yes, I have experienced that and a lot of my friends have. That's why we're talking about the sensual revolution it's having intimacy and in an intimate relationship you have so much better sex, we're not prudes, we not saying no sex we're saying we want better sex." Pammie's exes include first husband Tommy Lee, second spouse Kid Rock and Rick Salomon, who she was wed to twice, and former boyfriends Marcus Schenkenberg, Bret Michaels, Vince Neil and David Charvet. At the other end of the scale, Pammie has been "treated" like a porn star in the bedroom and that was equally unsatisfying. She added: "I don't know if you've ever been treated like a porn star but it's not fun I can tell you. You get slapped, hit, called names, spit on, and that's sex. I have experienced that and I never want it to happen again ... I think people put this image on me and think they have to be wild and crazy." Pammie has been branded a hypocrite for launching her campaign with Rabbi Boteach as she has been the cover star of Playboy magazine more times than any other star and was one of the first celebrity sex tape stars, albeit an unwilling one when footage of her and her ex-husband Tommy Lee was stolen and distributed in 1995. The blonde bombshell - who has two sons Brandon, 20, and Dylan, 18, from her marriage to Tommy - insists she doesn't regret any of her nude Playboy shoots and says her experience of the softcore porn magazine helps her in her campaign to re-educate men on the dangers of pornography. She explained: "The sexual revolution was a great thing, it gave us a lot of freedom, but I think it also gave us really bad sex, I want a sensual revolution because in the age of technology there's so much access (to material) I feel like people are becoming desensitised and there are these multiple images and videos that get stranger and weirder. It's a big concern, I have two teenage boys and it's a worry when I talk to a lot of mothers. "I know I should just go away because I was in Playboy and I had a tape stolen from my home and spread all over the world and people saw things that they should have never seen, but I didn't think Playboy was pornographic ... I don't regret my Playboy days, I thought Playboy was free and sexy. It was on my terms ... I have some regrets in my life but my Playboy experience isn't something I regret. I'm glad I now have this perspective and I have a little bit of authority on the subject because I've been treated as an object in a relationship." Bang Showbiz