Theresa Smith The one unsurprising thing about the Baxter Dance Festival is that you are going to be surprised by something. Some great new dancer or unexpectedly quirky choreographer. A move you could have never imagined. Currently on at the Baxter until October 15, this annual dance showcase concentrates on the professionals during the week, with the programme changing every two days. Patrons who come early enough to catch the foyer performance are amused by Shirley-Anne Bezuidenhout and Tania Vossgatter’s Veja (Portuguese for look here). It is a playful piece of work that has the two looking for their groove while still making good-natured fun of passersby stiffly trying to pretend they don’t see the two mischievously following them. Once you move into the theatre proper things get a bit more serious. Louise Coetzer’s commissioned piece In C makes sterling use of Terry Riley’s music with two djs on laptops mixing up some hypnotic beats with the dancers building up their movements just as the djs build up particular riffs. The dancers connect, disconnect and reconnect in an exacting piece of choreography. Grant van Ster and Shaun Oelf have shifted up a gear in their choreography for Figure of Eight Dance Collective. Free To Be Me explores the idea of the beauty of being free, and while each dancer gets a chance to break out, their ensemble work is what impresses most. They trade a palpable yet controlled energy between them, back and forth, that grows as they work together. This is in extreme contrast to Sbonakaliso Ndaba’s Ukwakhwa (to build) which starts off with the Indoni Dance, Arts and Leadership Academy dancers indulging in a highly energetic display of male dominance. The dancers never flag, with the individual energy simply sparking off each other, spurring each other on to literally greater heights. This group specialises in some daring leaps which impress. The few female dancers in the group are initially hidden behind the suits they are all wearing. The women do engage on equal footing with the men in a few exchanges but this particular piece is all about aggressive power and they are quickly left on the sidelines to watch. Kirvan Fortuin’s After 9 is an excellent way for the Cape Town City Ballet dancers to show their under-rated and seldom seen neo-classical ballet skills. Their exemplary classical technique stands them in good stead - when compared to the less rigorously trained dancers used in Saskia Wicomb’s Living Water the CTCB dancers just effortlessly shine. After 9 is a minimalist piece of work, so there is no hiding behind flashy jumps or intricate props/sets, the dancers have to get it right because you notice when they don’t. Arguing that CTCB would broaden their appeal if they incorporate more of this kind of dance into their repertoire is an old argument shot down by the absolute loyalty of local dance lovers to the arch classical repertoire. On the other hand, it does make me wonder what would happen if CTCB made a foray into neo-classical en pointe? They would probably totally ace the technique and it might be the bridge they are looking for to increase their audience while not losing their traditional patronage. A return to the works of Balanchine (which they last did when they were still known as Capab) might be a way to test the water... The Baxter Dance Festival continues till October 15. Check www.baxter.co.a for full schedule and programme.