Lamar Odom never had sex with the prostitutes he partied with at the Love Ranch when he suffered an accidental drug overdose - because he was unable to perform. The 36-year-old retired NBA player - the estranged husband of Khloe Kardashian - was rushed to hospital on 13 October 2015 after he was discovered unconscious at Dennis Hof's infamous Love Ranch brothel in Crystal, Nevada, and went on to spend several days in a coma and on life support systems in a Las Vegas hospital before regaining consciousness. Lamar spent most of his time during that fateful visit with two of the Ranch's employees Monica Monroe and Ryder Cherry, and now a year on from the episode Monica has made a tell-all blog post on BunnyRanch.com documenting her experience with the basketball star. Monica, 36, has revealed she was excited to be chosen to party with Lamar and she and Cherry were paid $75,000 to stay with him exclusively for the duration of his stay The sexy blonde wanted to get physical with the hunky sportsman but despite her best efforts to arouse him she was unable to stir his "ample sized penis" into life and she says he seemed more interested in talking and "eating KFC" than having sex. She revealed: "No sex occurred while Lamar was at the Love Ranch. We talked, we laughed, and we shared our sorrows, but we didn't have sex ... I was determined to have sex with him. I was attracted to him and I wanted to give it to him good. On the second day of his stay it looked as if I would have my chance ... As we were playing around, I took the opportunity to strip him naked and gave him a full body massage. I was determined to have my way with his ample sized penis, but he just couldn't get it up. No matter what we did, and we did a lot, neither Ryder nor myself could sexually arouse Lamar." Monica thinks Lamar came to the Love Ranch because he felt lost due to the breakdown of his marriage to Khloe, 32, and she was unable to relate to him because her boyfriend of eight years had just been killed in a shooting. She said: "Lamar and I made a connection because we both were a little lonely due to recent losses in our lives: I had recently lost my boyfriend of eight years to a shooting and he was distraught over his estranged wife, Khloe Kardashian." Monica admits the experience turned her whole life upside down, lost her business with celebrities who frequent the Love Ranch and outed her as a professional sex worker to family members who had no idea. She, and Dennis, have contemplated suing Lamar for the damage he cause but ultimately she has decided not to as is "not sure if Lamar could be held legally responsible for the repercussions of this tragedy" and ultimately she has some sympathy for him because he's "an addict" and "overdosed on drugs". Lamar got sober after the life-threatening experience but in the last five months he has been seen partying and drinking on several occasions. Bang Showbiz