Former firefighter Robert Linhart was arrested twice outside the '4 Minutes' hitmaker's apartment in 2010 and sentenced to three years probation in 2013 over his attentions towards the star. However, he says he is now “disgusted” with the 58-year-old singer after reading about her decision to take legal action against the owners of her apartment building after they enforced strict rules about people being there when she was away. He blasted: “How dare Madonna think she rules the world? “I'm no longer in love. She just thinks she can do whatever she wants. “I'm done with her. And now that I'm free again, I'm going to travel.” Robert - whose probation ended earlier this year - originally felt a connection to Madonna after meeting her in Prague and then continuing to run into her “all over Europe”. That prompted him to want to profess his love to her outside her home, via wooden boards he carried that bore slogans such as “Madonna, I need you!” and “Tell me yes or no. If it's yes, my dream will come true. If it's no, I will go. XXX.” He added to the New York Post newspaper: “I guess I got my answer. She didn't want to meet me.” And Robert's lawyer, Peter Gleason, insisted his client should never have been arrested as he was only giving Madonna “the attention she craved”. He said: “Madonna thinks the sun rises and falls on her tuchus. “Just because you're a celebrity doesn't mean you don't have to follow the rules. “[Robert] gave Madonna the attention she has craved for the last 40 years. It should not have ended up in his arrest. “He was a fan.That's like arresting a 13-year-old girl who stands out front of Justin Bieber's house.” The 'Material Girl' singer was reported last week as having filed a case against One West 64th Street for enforcing rules which forbid her from allowing people including her children Lourdes, 19, Rocco, 16, Mercy, 10, and David, 11, as well as her staff, into a second unit she owns in the block and staying when she is not there. The 'Music' hitmaker has insisted the owners knew Madonna's status and lifestyle and did not object to letting others stay when she first moved into the property 12 years ago, four years before she bought the second apartment. Bang Showbiz