Cape Town - Travel search platform Cheapflights.co.za has announced the launch of the inaugural Cheapflights South Africa Travel Awards, a new awards programme that celebrates the work and successes of the local travel industry. The awards will recognise everything from the best local airports and airlines, to the best safari and wine farm offerings, and everything in between. Cheapflights is now calling on South Africans to cast their votes for their favourite brands and businesses within the travel industry. Voters stand a chance to win prize trip for two to Mauritius, and can cast their votes here. Voting closes November 1, 2016, with the best in each category being recognised at an awards ceremony in Cape Town at the end of November. “The South African travel industry is a vibrant and exciting one,” explains Andrew Shelton, Managing Director of Cheapflights. “Not only is the country a must-visit for inbound international travel, but it also has a busy and constantly evolving domestic travel scene as well. “The facilities and attractions are world-class, and we want to recognise and celebrate the businesses and organisations that are doing such amazing work.” In order to shortlist the best finalists for the awards, Cheapflights partnered with the South African Travel Massive blogger community, which nominated the best offerings in each category. Expanding on the partnership, Dawn Jorgensen from Travel Massive said: “The Travel Massive Africa community is delighted to be working with Cheapflights, curating the best of what South Africa has to offer. “There is an abundance of choice in a country such as ours, but we all have our favourites, based on both personal and professional experiences, and will be voting to make sure they top the list. Exciting times indeed and I can’t wait for the Cheapflights South Africa Travel Awards winners to be revealed!” Adapted from a press release for IOL  The shortlisted nominees are: Best Airport: King Shaka International – Durban Cape Town International – Cape Town OR Tambo – Johannesburg  Best Airline Lounge: Bidvest Lounge, OR Tambo – Johannesburg SLOW Lounge, OR Tambo – Johannesburg Emirates Lounge, Cape Town International  Best African Airline: Air Namibia Ethiopian Airways Kenya Airways  Best Domestic Airline: Mango Airlines South African Airways Kulula  Best International Airline: Qatar Airways British Airways Emirates  Best South African Car Hire Provider: Avis Europcar Budget  Best Attraction or Experience: Maropeng - Cradle of Humankind Kruger National Park Table Mountain  Best Hotel Chain: Tsogo Sun Hotels Newark Hotels Protea Hotels by Marriot  Best Independent City/ Boutique Hotel: Ellerman House, Cape Town Saxon Boutique Hotel Villas and Spa, Johannesburg One & Only, Cape Town  Best Safari Lodge or Experience: Sabi Sands Game Reserve Madikwe Hills Game Reserve Shamwari Game Reserve  Best Wine Farm Experience: Babylonstoren, Franschhoek Groot Constantia, Cape Town Spier, Stellenbosch Winners will be announced at the end of November 2016.