 He is the quietest member of the current Blue Bulls team but often gets the loudest cheer at Loftus Versfeld. 26-year-old Bulls wing Jamba Ulengo has become an overnight crowd favourite with his ability to score tries at will and he has been an integral cog of the rebirth of the second most successful union in domestic rugby. Ulengo last year topped the try scoring charts with 11 tries and this year is amongst the leading try scorers so far in the competition with seven. But for Ulengo, scoring tries is not enough, he wants to get his hands on some silverware. He believes that Saturday’s Currie Cup semi-final against Western Province will open the door to them finally bringing back some silverware to the capital after a seven year drought. “It’s been a while since the Bulls won something and it will mean a lot for the fans and the Bulls family at large. We just want to prove to ourselves that we are capable of winning a title,”  he said. Ulengo was part of the Bulls team that lost in last year’s semi-final against an underdog Western Province side in the capital and the former Sevens star believes they have put that loss behind them. “Last year has already passed, we now have to focus on our processes and make sure this time we cross that line.” Ulengo is almost certain to cross the try-line on Saturday, something he has made a habit since arriving in Pretoria two years ago. Even though he had to begin lower down in the pecking order, the two years spent with the Springbok Sevens side were always going to make him stand out from the rest. Typical of Ulengo, he gives much of the credit for his try-scoring feats to his teammates and coaches Nollis Marais and David Manuel. But it is also his inner drive to become like role models and former Bulls star wings Akona Ndungane and Bryan Habana that has forced the best out of Ulengo. “I just want to give all the credit to my teammates because without them nothing would be possible. They (players) help me and encourage me and the coaches back me so I just want to give back to everyone,” said Ulengo. “I feel that I have improved tremendously with the backing of the coaches and the players and that helped me to improve my game and strive to be better in each and every game.” Ulengo and his teammates will have to produce their best performance of the season if they are to overcome the old foe. And as lethal as the Bulls have been on attack this year, Ulengo says their defence must be watertight against a side that thrives on broken play. “It is not only about attack but defence as well and we are preparing accordingly so hopefully everything will go well on Saturday,” said the Vryburg-born Ulengo. Western Province will have to be wary of the quietest man on the field or his try-scoring antics will drown them in the noise that will erupt from the Loftus faithful when Ulengo leads the hosts' charge to the final. The Star