PRESIDENT Jacob Zuma has given Public Protector Thuli Madonsela an ultimatum not to release her report into state capture this week until he has questioned his ministers on the issue. Zuma’s demand to the public protector yesterday came after he stood up Madonsela at their follow-up meeting in Pretoria. Zuma met Madonsela last Thursday, where he pushed for her to hand over the investigation to her  successor, Busisiwe Mkhwebane. Zuma is on a two-day state visit to Kenya and thus failed to show up for a meeting with Madonsela. The president wants to interrogate his ministers and former ANC leaders who gave evidence against him to Madonsela. Zuma’s spokesperson, Bongani Ngqulunga, said Madonsela had until today to give the president some of the information he requires before she releases her report. He wants to get all the records, information and evidence of all the witnesses. “The Presidency has therefore requested an undertaking by the public protector on or before close of business (today) that her office will not conclude the investigation and issue any report until all the evidence received by the public protector insofar as it implicates the president or calls upon him to tender an explanation is made available to him.” Ngqulunga said it was explained at last Thursday’s meeting with Madonsela that the president’s diary was developed well in advance and he needed time to attend to some of the issues raised. At last Thursday’s meeting, Zuma’s legal advisers kept pushing for Mkhwebane to take over the investigations into state capture. Madonsela was unhappy to be stood up by Zuma, despite clear communication last week that the meeting would take place. The public protector has confirmed interviewing several ministers, including Deputy Minister of Finance Mcebisi Jonas, former government spokesperson Themba Maseko and former ANC MP Vytjie Mentor. Last night, Madonsela said she noted the remarks by the Presidency and said Zuma has been afforded an opportunity to tender his evidence since March 22. “It is of concern to the public protector that the president has on two occasions undertaken to answer questions and when the time arose, he changed his mind. "The public protector genuinely believes it is in the interests of the president to account for what he knows regarding the allegations, which the public protector already forwarded to him in March 2016. "She also believes it is in the interest of public trust that the matter be concluded expeditiously,” a statement from her office read.