From the hits and the misses of the red carpet, to Somizi's obvious shade at Bonang and a few awkward presenting moments from the “replacements” (singer Yemi Alade, actress Nomzamo Mbatha and media personality Bonang Matheba), the MAMAs was packed with entertainment. How do people dress up for a music awards show in Africa? Do you go with African prints or more of a black tie look? Will you be able to 'turn up' in the long dress? Whatever their style choices, celebrities and musicians showed up oozing glamour and ready to celebrate African music and talents. Ticket Pro Dome was the place to be on Saturday October 22 where the MAMAs took place for the first time in Gauteng province. Whether or not people understood how to dress for the occasion is entirely dependent on perception but the looks on the red carpet were very schizophrenic. This was a music award ceremony after all, which meant that the performances would be “lit” and the atmosphere would call for ones' most “ratchet” dance moves. And when South Africa's “national treasure” Babes Wodumo took to the stage, there was not a single stationary body in the Dome, that accommodates over 20 000 people. The collaborative performances that kept the show going were well rehearsed and a reminder of the versatility of African music. Thrilling collaborations from Africa’s foremost artists were the highlight of the show, including Kwesta and Stonebwoy, who performed a high-powered remix of Kwesta’s hit song “Ngud”, Yemi Alade and Kenyan Sauti sol's performance and the very energetic show-stopping performance by rapper Cassper Nyovest - who took his shirt off at the end of the performance to reveal the word “Fees Must Fall” painted on his chiselled chest. Big winner Wizkid - who scooped three awards with wins in the prestigious Best Male and Artist of the Year categories, and scoring one extra trophy for his featured performance on Best Collaboration Maphorisa and DJ Bucks - thrilled the crowd, with rousing support from the world famous Soweto Gospel Choir. The most touching moment of the night was a tribute to the late “Nkalakatha” of Kwaito Mandoza, by legends Mdu, Trompies and DJ Cleo. Bonang proved once again why she was the perfect choice to be trusted with the duty of hosting the show, just 24 hours before. Her delivery was “TV perfect” and she balanced out the few awkward moments when the teleprompter 'messed up' Nomzamo and Yemi. But what would an award show be without Somizi and his ever so spicy comments? The Idols judge, who was presenting the award for Personality of the Year, couldn't resist the temptation of playing on the “broken strings” of his friendship with Bonang. “Bonang was born ready. She was ready 24 hours before the show. When she was born they said 'It's Bonang.' And she said 'It's your girl B,” Somizi dramatically demonstrated Bonang's birth, much to the crowd's delight. Other highlights of the night included Bra Hugh Masekela's “get down” moves as he went to accept the MAMAs Legend Award, US rapper Future “opening” for young rapper Nasty C and some random brave guy who forced bouncers to work when he jumped on stage to hug Future during his performance. The lucky fans that made it to the Dome were not only treated to a beautiful fusion of African music but also to a “free” Future concert after the show went off air.  IOL