Port Elizabeth – On Tuesday the Port Elizabeth High Court heard how Jayde Panayiotou raised her hands in surrender before she was shot through the head execution-style just outside Kwanobuhle in Port Elizabeth by alleged triggerman Sizwezakhe Vumazonke. During the first day of the trial against Christopher Panayiotou and his two co-accused, Sinethemba Nenembe and Zolani Sibeko, State Prosecutor Marius Stander said the Riebeek College Girls’s High School teacher was shot twice through her back and then fell to the ground. “The state will argue and a tracker will show that Jayde was kidnapped on the pavement in front of her [Stellen Glen] complex,” said Stander. After being driven to a remote area on the outskirts of Kwanobhule where the killing took place, the State claims that Vumazaonke fired two shots through Jayde’s back. “She then fell to the ground, the shooter then stood over her and shot her through the head, the State will lead evidence that she raised her hands as gunshot residue was found on her left hand,” said Stander At this point Jayde’s mother broke down in court upon hearing graphic details around her daughter’s death. According to the State, shortly after Vumazonke pulled the trigger he visited a sangoma (traditional healer) to be “cleansed”. He had in his possession Jayde’s bag and laptop. Stander said that Vumazonke’s visit to a sangoma was directly linked to police arresting upon his return to Port Elizabeth from Cape Town. The State is expected to rely heavily on cellphone records and cellphone mapping. Stander said that after the hit was carried out, Luthando Siyoni went to the OK Grocer to collect payment from Panayiotou. It is alleged that Panayiotou paid Siyoni, a bouncer from his Infinity nightclub, to hire hitman Vumazonke to kidnap and kill Jayde. The State alleges that Nenembe assisted Vumazonke to kidnap and murder Jayde at the behest of her husband. Siyoni has since turned States witness. Stander added that as early as April 22, the day Jayde’s body was found, Siyoni and Jayde’s husband were identified as suspects. The accused face charges of conspiracy to commit murder, murder, kidnapping, robbery with aggravating circumstances and unlawful possession of firearm and ammunition. The men have pleaded not guilty to all the charges against them. Panayiotou, who was arrested shortly after his wife’s murder more than a year ago, faces an additional charge of defeating the ends of justice. African News Agency