After their 5-0 whitewash of Australia, Zahier Adams rates our Proteas heroes out 10. Rilee Rossouw: 9.5 ODIs: Five  Runs: 311  Ave: 77.75  HS: 122  100s: One  50s: Two. Justifiably the Man of the Series, Rossouw blossomed like a flower in spring. A precocious talent since making his first-class debut as a teenager, this was the series when the world saw what the boy from Bloemfontein could achieve on the big stage if backed by the selectors. The suits certainly gave him rope - even leaving out Hashim Amla at his expense - and the southpaw certainly delivered under high pressure. It’s now up to him kick on from this success. Faf du Plessis: 9 ODIs: 5  Runs: 250  Ave: 50.00  HS: 111  100s: One  50s: One Du Plessis may not believe that leadership has a positive effect on his batting, but there’s no doubt it has a galvanising effect on the Proteas as a whole. The longer the series went on, the quicker the words “stand-in” disappeared when the captain of the Proteas was discussed. A feature of the side over the past month was how every player responded positively whenever the calm Du Plessis asked for a rousing performance. But no skipper earns the respect of his teammates if he doesn’t contribute and this is where the 32-year-old excelled, striking a century and a fifty, in addition to his brilliance in the field where he completed some amazing run outs and catches. Andile Phehlukwayo: 9 ODIs: Five  Wkts: Eight  Ave: 30.00  Econ: 6.20  BB: 4/44  Runs: 66  Ave: 66.0  HS: 42* If ever a South African enjoyed a dream debut series it was 20-year-old Andile “Lucky” Phehlukwayo. With every wicket the all-rounder bagged - and there were eight scalps in all, which ensured he finished as the highest wicket-taker in the series - Phehlukwayo silenced those who dubbed him a “quota selection” prior to his international bow. The boundaries he smashed into the stands, especially during the epic run-chase in Durban, was simply the icing on the cake. The Proteas have unearthed a special one; best they look after him. Quinton de Kock: 8.5 ODIs: 5  Runs: 300  Ave: 60.0  HS: 178  100s: One  50s: One The amount of talent De Kock has is simply freakish. Can you imagine how good he’s going to be when he’s all grown up? All his skill and power were on display when “Quinny” lit up SuperSport Park in the first ODI with an innings equal to Herschelle Gibbs’ mastery in the “438 game” a decade earlier. There were some breathtaking catches too, although the 23-year-old wicketkeeper would not have been happy with the let-off he offered David Warner diving to his left at Newlands. David Miller: 8.5 ODIs: Four  Runs: 193  Ave: 96.50  HS: 118* 100s: One  50s: Two It certainly was “Miller Time”, especially when Kingsmead was treated to a pyrotechnics show of the highest calibre. The innings showcased Miller at his absolute best as he sent a crop of young Australian bowlers back home with some serious mental scars. After his recent recall, the finisher role is his for the foreseeable future. JP Duminy: 7.5 ODIs: 5  Runs: 209  Ave: 41.80  HS: 82  50s: Two  Wkts: One  Ave: 70  Econ: 5.83  BB: 1/17 The sight of an Aussie just seems to bring out the best in Duminy ever since that magical Boxing Day Test in 2008 at the MCG. He reminded us of his class with two sublime half-centuries this series, and the only disappointment was that he failed to convert them into a three-figure score. An in-form JP bodes well for the three-Test series Down Under. Kyle Abbott: 7.5 ODIs: 2  Wkts: 6  Ave: 14.66  Econ: 4.88  BB: 4/40 Upstated his more illustrious teammates when asked to deputise at St George's Park, and certainly showed Australia the depth of the Proteas pace bowling options with a Man-of-the-Match performance. Followed it up with another tidy spell at Newlands. Imran Tahir: 7 ODIs: Four  Wkts: Six  Ave: 28.15  Econ: 4.67  BB: 2/42 “He is an absolute gun,” said Du Plessis of his “banker” Tahir, after the Aussies were whitewashed at Newlands. It's certainly no exaggeration, even though this series was one of the leg-spinner’s quieter outings in recent times. But as with all big players who know when the big moments are, Tahir seized his in spectacular fashion with a double strike in his first over on Wednesday. His ultra-passion for the Protea on his chest also remains unrivalled within the national squad. Tabraiz Shamsi: 7 ODIs: One  Wkts: Three  Ave: 12  Econ: 3.60  BB: 3/36 How we would have loved to see Shamsi bowl with Tahir, such was the confusion the tourists showed when they only had one to contend with in any given match. There will surely be more opportunities for the new Proteas hot-shot spinner with the Chinaman bowler certainly enhancing his reputation during this series. Expect big things from him Down Under. Aaron Phangiso: 5 ODIs: One  Wkts: Two  Ave: 8.50  Econ: 3.64  BB: 2/17 He was only granted one opportunity, but put in a worthy performance in Port Elizabeth. Tahir and Tabraiz Shamsi may be the show-stoppers, but Phangiso remains a vital back-up team member for the Proteas. Farhaan Behardien: 4 ODIs: Three  Runs: 30  Ave: 30  HS: 13 The consistency of the top-order in the matches that Behardien played did not help his cause, as it provided precious few opportunities for him to shine with the bat. In the matches he was not a part of, Miller and Rossouw advanced their claims for a permanent middle-order spot considerably with some astonishing innings. With AB de Villiers still to return, Behardien’s international future remains at a crossroads. Wayne Parnell: 4 ODIs: Two  Wkts: Four  Ave: 24.00  Econ: 6.40  BB: 3/40  Runs: Eight  Ave: -  HS: 8* Must be the unluckiest South African cricketer doing the rounds. Chris Morris' withdrawal prior to the series, due to injury, presented a perfect opportunity for Parnell to close the debate on who the Proteas' premier limited-overs all-rounder should be going forward. But he, too, broke down with a rib injury after bowling his country to victory at the Wanderers and was forced out of the remainder of the series. Also, the emergence of Phehlukwayo and Dwaine Pretorius could curtail Parnell’s opportunities going ahead. Kagiso Rabada: 4 ODIs: Four  Wkts: Five  Ave: 52.80  Econ: 4.63  BB: 231  Runs: Nine  HS: 9* Undoubtedly the toughest series that the 21-year-old has endured during his fledgling career. Flat and true surfaces, especially on the Highveld, did not help his cause but he would be the first to admit that his execution was not at the level he expects from himself. The one benefit that Rabada will take away from this experience is that he now knows what level he must be at when he gets another crack at the Aussies in Australia next month. Dwaine Pretorius: 4 ODIs: Two  Wkts: One  Ave: 75  Econ: 5.76  BB: 1/33  Runs: 15  HS: 15 A steady though not spectacular series from the all-rounder, but he certainly did not look out of his depth and showed great courage when asked to open the bowling into a blustery wind at St George’s Park. Hashim Amla: 3 ODIs: Three  Runs: 74  Ave: 24.66  HS: 45 It would be interesting to know what the wager was on the Proteas walloping the world champions 5-0 without the No 1-ranked ODI batsman, De Villiers, and Amla not even scoring a half-century. I’m certain it would be close to the Leicester City-esque winnings after last season’s England Premier League season. Amla never got going after missing the first match with flu, and then being controversially left out of the second at the Bullring. A quick-fire 45 at Kingsmead was his only meaningful contribution. Perhaps he, too, is saving his best form for the Test arena. Dale Steyn: 2 ODIs: Four  Wkts: Five  Ave: 50.80 Econ: 6.99  BB: 2/65 The question has to be asked whether Steyn's international future lies solely with the red ball after a disappointing series for the spearhead fast bowler. The ignominy of conceding the worst figures by a South African in an ODI rubberstamped his fall from grace, and hopefully he will soon call time on his own limited-overs career before he is forced out. Cape Times