Johannesburg - Students from the University of the Witwatersrand (Wits) took their protest to the streets of Parktown, blocking roads and burning tyres during peak morning traffic on Monday.Police fired rubber bullets in an effort to disperse the defiant students. At nearby Knockando students residence, a standoff between police and protesters ensued.The #FeesMustFall protesters demanded that a curfew implemented by the university on Friday be lifted as it restricts their freedom of movement on campus.University buildings such as libraries and reading rooms were reportedly closed between 9.30pm and 6am, except at student and staff residences. Those who do not reside on campus were apparently not allowed entry during curfew times. Students defied the curfew and gathered outside their residences on Sunday night.On Sunday Wits spokesperson Shirona Patel disputed reports of a curfew on campus. Students can move freely throughout the campuses until 10pm. Library opening and closing times have not changed. The only difference is that students have to study in their own residences after 10pm instead of in learning areas. They can walk freely in their respective residences, she said.Patel also disputed students' claims that police entered residences and knocked door-to-door. There were skirmishes on Friday night but no injuries were reported to Campus Control. On Monday Patel said students had set alight rubbish bins placed on the lawns overnight. Rocks were hurled at buildings, breaking windows, she said. A security guard was assaulted outside the men s residence and his vehicle s windows broken. Several campus inroads and those outside the student residences were barricaded, however, they have been cleared this morning. Stun grenades were used to disperse students, no police entered any residences last night. The institution said lectures would continue despite protests.Protesting students were mobilising to go to court and lend support to former Wits Student Representative Council (SRC) president Mcebo Dlamini. The 32-year-old was arrested at his student residence room on Sunday for allegedly assaulting a police officer African News Agency