Nasty C, Gigi Lamayne and Leanne Dlamini had their albums offically launced by Mabala Noise on the national radio station Metro FM. The event took place at the SABC M1studio and was broadcast live on Lulu Cafe and the Naked DJ’s show Audiogasm on Friday October 14. Mabala Noise surprised the audience when singer Leanne Dlamini took to the stage and announced that she had just signed with the label. She will release her album with Mabala, which is home to the likes of Khanyi Mbau, Zakwe and Latoya Makhene. Gigi Lamayne was launcing iGenesis but left the stage emotional after the sound wasn't up to standard and affected her performance. She kept asking the sound guy “why are you sabotaging me?” Later in the post-performance interview with Lulu Cafe and Naked DJ, she explained that she never wants people to think that she is a “wack” performer. One of the most anticipated artist of the night was the 19-year-old rapper Nasty C. Who, during an interview and a series of Q and A form the audience, shared with the audience that he doesn’t let compliments and ‘G.O.A.T comments’ go to his head. Instead he said, it is the little unexpected things that remind him why he does music (and going to buy a rolex). He made reference to a video posted on Snap Chat of a little girl in the US who was singing a hook from the song ‘Phases’ of his new album Bad Hair. The #MabalaonMETROFM was a first of its kind and Hlaudi Motsoeneng took the moment to share with the audience, the future of music in SA. “If you look at America and other countries, you will see that actually the SABC should market its own people. Beyonce is not famous because it was Beyonce, it was because of broadcasters and media, so the role of media not only the SABC, all media should promote our own artists, for that is key  and I am very happy to see that even young emerging artists are promoted on our platforms. People who are compiling music to take bribes, we can't allow that, even people who are paying bribes, they should be arrested, because we can open a case against them because, we don't want to hear that other people are taking opportunities because they have paid bribe, denying people who can produce even better songs opportunities. What we're staying is we need fairness in South Africa. Last point is why do we want to play gospel on a Sunday, who said that when we want to listen to music you can only play gospel on Sunday or Jazz.”  IOL