Bonang Matheba opened the SA Lingerie Fashion Show for the Woolworths Distraction line wearing a Gert-Johan Coetzee design and of course a Distraction garment. The flamboyant designer spoke to IOL Lifestyle exclusively about being fierce, the ‘warrior’ dress and Bonang!  What's the inspiration behind the Distraction 'warrior' dress? I was inspired by strong, passionate women. I really wanted the showpiece to exude regality - an almost statuesque figure - yet still retain a feminine and flirtatious touch. Who's your ultimate warrior goddess and why? Wow, I think my ultimate warrior goddess is a woman that respects herself and knows what she wants. Confidence is one of the most attractive features in a woman  What is a distinctive feature of the dress that makes it particularly special? One of the most distinctive features is that it's completely embellished with Swarovski crystals - exploding into a full ostrich feather skirt which makes it proudly South African - I think that's a nice touch to this specific dress. Where do you seek inspiration for your designs? With this specific dress I really wanted Bonang to look goddess-like and fantastical. I looked at Woolworths' Distraction lingerie and wanted to seamlessly incorporate that into the design without stealing away from Bonang's personality and the Gert-Johan Coetzee flair.  Which song is your 'warrior chant' when you need to get psyched? I'm torn between Katy Perry 'Warrior' and 'Fight Song' - those two are fantastic inspiring songs. I generally only listen to positive music. What qualities make a woman fierce? I have to say confidence; confidence is always beautiful. If you're confident in yourself and fiercely stand by your beliefs, this shows how you live your life. What makes your working relationship with Bonang so successful? You get power couples and then you get fashion power couples, that's Bonang and I. It's all about collaborating and listening to people, we both respect each other and understand where to push and where to let go.  What do you love most about being a designer? It's really about being included in a special moment in someone's life. I get to be a part of this beautiful lingerie fashion show. I get to be part of somebody's wedding day, anniversary, birthday, matric dance and so on. What is your must-have for the summer? Bottle green is huge this summer. Get your hands on a classic boyfriend jacket - army style.   All pictures taken by Andrew Brown at Canal Walk.