Cape Town - Despite a sensational maiden franchise hundred by Jason Smith, the Cape Cobras’ batting form again deserted them on the final day of Sunfoil Series action against the Knights in Bloemfontein. Smith, who celebrated his 22nd birthday on day one on Tuesday, smashed an unbeaten 100, but it couldn’t stop the Knights from finishing off the Cobras on Friday afternoon as in-form paceman Marchant de Lange took six wickets to wrap up a convincing 175-run victory at the Mangaung Oval. The Cape side still had some hope of pulling off what would’ve been a remarkable victory at the start of day four, with Zubayr Hamza on 52 and Stiaan van Zyl on five as the Cobras resumed on 127/2 off 25 overs, still 317 in arrears. But for coach Paul Adams and his team to get close, they needed their overnight batsmen to kick on and bat for most of the first session. However, Proteas Test left-hander Van Zyl (5) was first to fall in the second over of the day when De Lange got going, with Duanne Olivier taking the catch. Smith joined Hamza in the middle, and it seemed as if the rookie pair was going along nicely as they put on 28 runs. But disaster struck as the latter - having moved on to 68 off 94 balls (12x4) - was dismissed by Shadley van Schalkwyk, with wicket-keeper Rudi Second taking the catch. The Cobras’ last senior figure, Dane Vilas, walked to the crease at 161/4, still a long way from the 444 required for victory. But Vilas didn’t last long as De Lange landed a double blow, getting rid of the Cobras wicket-keeper for one and Aviwe Mgijima for 2 within four balls to end the match as a contest. Spinner Dane Piedt hung around for over an hour, though, and that allowed Smith to get after the bowling. And the former SA Under-19 all-rounder didn’t disappoint, hitting Olivier for three fours in an over to go to his 50 off 53 balls, while he also dispatched veteran left-armer Robin Peterson for a six and three further boundaries. The seventh-wicket stand yielded 82 runs in just over 16 overs, but Piedt’s 71-minute vigil was eventually ended for 18 by left-arm seamer Mbulelo Budaza, with Second taking his third catch of the innings. All that was left for the Cobras was to see whether Smith could reach his three figures, as he was on 80 not out with just the bowlers to come. And he was nearly stranded as De Lange cleaned up Beuran Hendricks (1) and Tshepo Moreki (0), but then took matters into his own hands as he slammed De Lange for four boundaries in the 59th over to bring up his first hundred for the Cobras off just 88 balls (17x4, 1x6). Sure enough, Budaza ended the game in the next over by having Dane Paterson caught for one, while De Lange finished with figures of 6/61 in 18 overs as the Knights won their second consecutive game. They claimed 18.84 points, with the Cobras getting 6.82. While the batting display was a slight improvement on last week’s performance against the Highveld Lions, the Cobras have to get more runs out of their top-order if they hope to be competitive going forward. Captain Omphile Ramela has yet to get going in his new role as an opener, while Stiaan van Zyl got an 83 in the first innings in Bloemfontein. They will have a week to work on their game before hosting the Warriors at Newlands next Thursday, where they will be without Vilas, who is part of the Proteas squad that leaves on Sunday for the Test tour of Australia. But Adams will hope that limited-overs captain Justin Ontong is back from the split webbing injury that has sidelined him for the first two games, while Andrew Puttick could also return at the top of the order.  ashfak.mohamed@inl.co.za  @ashfakmohamed Independent Media