Within a week of the ‘Don Dada’ music video upload, the video had 130K+ views. In the words of a tweep who posted on rapper K.O’s timeline, those are “#levels_kwedini”. “I feel humbled by the love I have received from fans, and from in and out of the industry. The views of the music video on YouTube also just goes to show how there has been a power shift. The power now resides with the artist, the messge and the resonance of that message to the recipients. He explains that through the music video he wanted to capture the atmosphere in the townships because that is the essence of what he has build his brand up to be. Instead of the norm - where rappers are having a party in some mansion in the suburbs - K.O explains that ‘Don Dada’ is not about that kind of vibe, and he wanted the video to illustrate that fact.   “I am a proud South African and I wanted to show what the type of background many of us black South Africans aspiring for ‘bigger things’ come from. Don Dada” which loosely translates to “the main man” was a ‘natural’ collaboration between K.O and Okmalumkoolkat. Okmalumkoolkat is an artist whom K.O feels is very similar to him, “He is authentic in who he is, an influencer, trendsetter and a very important element for the culture.” And that, as K.O explains is what a real “Don Dada” is; a man who can hold their own and fully claim their space with no apology. As they continue to ride on the hype of their collaboration, K.O mentions that we can expect more collabos or features between them. Not only in terms of songs, but projects such as #FreeKon (free concert by K.O and Okmalumkoolkat) and a mini tour this December. He also shared that the concert was inspired by the gratitude he feels each day towards his fans, who have stuck with him since he broke into the industry with Teargas. Although we can expect his album only midyear in 2017, he says that he will release a single - “a melodic-type of rap love song” - in January. But there is no need to fret as the rapper is featured on rapper Pro’s (used to be Pro Kid) single titted “Pholas” which will drop during the course of this week. IOL