Johannesburg - An alleged road rage incident on Wednesday night on the West Rand has left a man with a gunshot wound to the head. Although the 30-year-old survived the harrowing ordeal which occurred on South Africa drive in Cosmo City, North of Johannesburg, he is recovering in hospital after the bullet entered the front of his skull. ER24 paramedics Werner Vermaak said the victim told paramedics he was shot at  after being involved in a car crash with the gunman at about 8pm on Wednesday night. “The man told paramedics that he was involved in a collision with another vehicle when the other driver apparently got out of the vehicle and shot him.” When paramedics arrived at the scene, the injured motorist was sitting on a pavement alongside the main road near his vehicle, said Vermaak. He was then treated at the scene before being taken to a nearby hospital for further medical care where he is in a serious, but stable condition. “He had a gunshot wound to the front of his head. He was immediately assessed by paramedics and treated for his injury,” he said. Vermaak added that the alleged attacker was not injured during the collision but that he was questioned by the Joburg Metro Police Department. “The exact circumstances surrounding the incident will be investigated.” 10 injured in taxi crash Meanwhile, 10 people including a six-year-old child sustained injuries after a minibus taxi they were travelling in last night in Randburg overturned. The crash occurred about 8pm at the intersection of Malibongwe Drive and President Fouche. Vermaak explained that when paramedics arrived at the scene, they found the vehicle lying on its side. “Majority of the occupants were found walking around on the scene. Some of them were sitting on a nearby pavement,” he said. They were treated at the scene and were taken to various hospitals. “Two people sustained moderate injuries while eight others sustained minor injuries which ranged from scrapes and bruises to soft tissue injuries,” said Vermaak. He added that the child sustained minor injuries in the accident. Although the cause of the accident was still under police investigation, Vermaak said that it is believed that a car collided with taxi, causing it to overturn. JMPD spokesman Wayne Minnaar confirmed the incident, saying the matter was now being investigated by the SAPS. Gauteng police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Lungelo Dlamini could not immediately confirm the incident. The Star  Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter   Subscribe to our Newsletter 