THE SABC board has stuck to its guns, refusing to resign after they were asked by the portfolio committee on communications in Parliament to go. But committee chairperson Humphrey Maxegwana confirmed yesterday they will cut out the remaining board members from attending a meeting with MPs when the SABC presents its financials. Maxegwana said only Minister of Communications Faith Muthambi and the executives of the SABC will be allowed to brief MPs on October 19 on the financial performance of the corporation. The SABC tabled its financials in Parliament two weeks ago,  showing another massive loss of R411 million and an increase in Hlaudi Motsoeneng’s salary from R3.7m to R4.1m. Maxegwana confirmed writing to the four remaining board  members. He said two of the four board members have responded to his letter and said they were consulting their lawyers. However, Maxegwana refused to name the two board members who responded to his letter. The other two members were yet to come back to him, he said. He said the board was barred from attending the meeting of the committee next week Wednesday, where the SABC will brief MPs on the financial performance of the SABC. “On October 19, the SABC will come to Parliament to present their annual report with audited  financial statements. We have called the minister and the  executive management of the SABC,” Maxegwana said. The board will not be part of this meeting as it did not have a quorum. Last week, SABC board chairperson Mbulaheni Maguvhe remained defiant and said they would not resign. But the board cannot take any decisions as it does not have a quorum. This is one of MPs' reasons for the board to resign as it could no longer hold meetings or take  decisions. It was established that former group executive of corporate affairs Bessie Tugwana was illegally appointed acting chief operating officer by the board because it did not have a quorum. SABC spokesperson Kaizer Kganyago did not comment on whether the board will step down. He said the committee had written to them individually and they will respond in writing to the committee in their individual capacity.