Adult film company Vivid Entertainment has made Kim Kardashian West's infamous sex tape a virtual reality experience. The 36-year-old reality star became the unwitting star of the best-selling sex tape of all-time in 'Kim Kardashian Superstar' which was filmed by her ex-boyfriend, rapper Ray J, in 2003 and leaked in 2007. Now Vivid - who own the rights to the tape - have turned the video into 'The Kim Kardashian VR Experience' as part of their expansion into Vivid Virtual. Michael H. Klein, President of Broadcasting and Internet for Vivid said: "Early reactions to VividVirtual.com have been fantastic. VividVirtual.com offers exclusive new adult content shot specifically for VR viewing as well as completely re-imagined ways to enjoy our most popular movies and other content." The company has worked closely with leading VR development company 3XStudios to create the project, who dubbed the content as "award winning". Co-founder and CEO of 3XStudios Adam Block said: "We knew that Vivid was the ideal brand for us to partner with. Their over 30-year legacy of offering the industry's most award winning and highly sought after videos really aligns with our capabilities in the VR space." The experience claims to enable fans to feel an "unprecedented intimate connection" with the 'Keeping Up with the Kardashians' star when they don any form of VR gear including the Oculus Rift, Samsung Gear, or Google Cardboard. However, what buyers actually get for their $119 is a Kim "lookalike", and not the brunette beauty herself, although the website claims otherwise. A statement released by Vivid said: "This virtual experience gives you your first chance to see what it would be like to make your own personal home video with the reality celebutante, Miss Kim Kardashian. She comes right out of her famous home video with Ray J to have some fun with you." Now, Kim's legal team have responded to the claims and are looking into the possibility of suing the company for misuse of her name and brand. A spokesperson for Kim said: "At this time we are looking into legal options for this blatant misuse of Kim's name."  Bang Showbiz