Cape Town - Former Proteas spinner Robin Peterson “feels really sorry” for Dane Piedt, but believes Tabraiz Shamsi’s selection for the Proteas Test tour of Australia is an “excellent choice”. Piedt, the sole specialist spinner during the recent New Zealand Test series, has lost his place in the 16-man touring squad for the three-match series Down Under with the national selection panel opting for the uncapped left-arm spin duo of Shamsi and Keshav Maharaj. The Proteas brainstrust have taken a mental note of the destruction. Rangana Herath inflicted on the Aussies with his left-arm trickery recently and will surely be hoping the scars are still raw when they arrive in Perth within a fortnight for the first Test at the Waca. Peterson, a fellow left-arm spinner, played in South Africa’s last Test in Australia back in 2012, where his six-wicket haul at the Waca was a pivotal contribution to the Proteas winning the Test and the series. He also has the honour of being the last bowler to dismiss former Australian captain Ricky Ponting in that Test. “Dane Piedt is very unlucky not to be selected. He’s shown good promise in the Test matches he’s played and I do feel really sorry for him,” Peterson said. “However, it’s an excellent choice by the selectors to go with Shamsi. That is not even a debate. “He’s shown his talent in the one-dayers and at the moment the Aussies simply have no clue against him. He’s troubled their big players… Steve Smith… David Warner… and I’m sure the rest of the Test batting line-up will take a while to figure him out. Keshav’s also done really well recently and very importantly he can bat too.” There’s little doubt that Shamsi and Maharaj are the two form spinners in the country at the moment. The former has impressed every time he’s been thrown the ball since making his One-Day International debut earlier this year in the Caribbean, while Maharaj claimed a career-best 13-wicket haul over the weekend during the Dolphins’ Sunfoil Series opener in East London. Shamsi, though, is the one grabbing the headlines once again after leaving the Aussie batsmen dumbfounded at the crease in Sunday’s fourth ODI at St George’s Park. The Chinaman bowler claimed three wickets - all trapped lbw - with neither right nor left-handed batsmen able to decipher which way the ball was going to turn. Australian wicket-keeper Matthew Wade admitted after the six-wicket defeat that Shamsi was “quite tough to read early” because “when the ball is spinning, like it was spinning today, he's difficult. You need to face a few balls to really get a read on.” It is unlikely that Shamsi or Maharaj will play in the first Test at Perth where the Proteas will most likely lean towards an all-out pace attack at the venue that traditionally boasts “the fastest pitch in the world”. Peterson, though, does not believe the conditions should be the overall deciding factor in regards to the composition of the starting XI. “I think South Africa’s style of cricket will always favour the faster men, but the nice thing about playing Test cricket in Australia is that you’re always in with a chance of taking a wicket. The conditions are tough because the ball doesn’t spin that much, but you can’t go there and want to bowl flat. A spinner needs the support of his captain, especially in Australia, because you must have the mental strength to flight the ball to give yourself a chance,” Peterson explained. The spinners should come into more of a consideration for the second Test at Hobart’s Bellerive Oval, while third Test at Adelaide is, of course, a day-night affair where the Proteas will play with a pink ball for the first time in Test cricket. According to knowledge sourced from Kiwis who played in the inaugural day-night Test last year, it is believed that especially the batsmen found it challenging to pick up the pink ball under lights after the new-ball bowlers had taken the shine off. If this proves to indeed to be accurate someone like Shamsi could just be captain Faf du Plessis’s trumpcard. However, Peterson believes Maharaj may have an edge over Shamsi due to his superior ability with bat in hand. Along with the 13 wickets the 26-year-old bagged at Buffalo Park, he smashed 72 off just 71 balls at No 9. “It’s a South African thing, we like our spinners to be able to bat,” he explained. “And in Australia, especially, the spinner must contribute lower down. It is very important to the overall balance of the team. Keshav can certainly bat like he has showed numerous times and he’s definitely bowled well enough to warrant a place in the team.” The 16-man squad will once again be led by Du Plessis in the absence of the injured AB de Villiers, although Morne Morkel returns to the squad after missing the Kiwi series though injury. The lanky fast bowler will need to successfully get through a Sunfoil Series match first this week without any further flare-ups. Opener Dean Elgar also returns from injury while another uncapped player, Rilee Rossouw, has been added as a specialist batsman. Cape Cobras wicket-keeper Dane Vilas will again travel as the second gloveman in the absence of De Villiers.  Proteas Test squad to Australia Faf du Plessis (capt), Kyle Abbott, Hashim Amla, Temba Bavuma, Stephen Cook, Quinton de Kock, JP Duminy, Dean Elgar, Keshav Maharaj, Morne Morkel, Vernon Philander, Kagiso Rabada, Rilee Rossouw, Tabraiz Shamsi, Dale Steyn, Dane Vilas. Independent Media