QUEEN OF KATWE DIRECTOR: Mira Nair CAST: Lupita Nyong’o, David Oyelowo, Madina Nalwanga, Martin Kabanza CLASSIFICATION: PG RUNNING TIME: 124 minutes RATING: 4 stars (out of 5)  BY MUNYA VOMO Wilbur Smith is one of the few established authors who portrays a beautiful African story as seen through the eyes of his African characters. His material is usually action-packed and good enough to go up against the Jason Bourne or Bond stories. If you were an avid reader in the 1990s, you’ll know of the Pacesetter Novels and their beautiful African stories. There have been many attempts to bring this glorified Africa to the big screen, but nothing has succeeded as well as Disney’s Queen of Katwe. Yes, we’ve had films like Hotel Rwanda and The Last King of Scotland, but they were about Africans suffering persecution, with the West usually playing the role of instigator, saviour or both. The argument can be that the two films mentioned are based on true events, but so is Queen of Katwe. Here we follow the story of Phiona Mutesi (Nalwanga), a 10-year-old from the slums of Uganda. Mutesi is a shy girl who does not have much to dream about as her circumstances, a single mother and several siblings, weigh her down. Daily, the distant skyline of Kampala stares back at her and her community as an unreachable Elysium that is only meant for the fortunate. Until, by accident really, Phiona bumps into a secret group of kids who play chess in the slums. Taught by a young, passionate man, Robert Katende (Oyelowo), the club is recreational more than anything else. However, when Phiona joins, and soon discovers she is good at the game, Katende gets the idea that this recreational posse could achieve more than he at first thought. And he was right; today Mutesi is a  Woman Candidate Master, a prestigious and internationally recognised title in the chess world. Queen of Katwe is the story of Mutesi and how the chess pieces she moves on a board also moved her out of her circumstances. It was refreshing to see director Nair take such an honest look at Africa. The treatment of the set, especially where Phiona lived, a Hades of dilapidated, roofless buildings that worsened with every rainy season, was heart-wrenching. Yet she and her siblings were happy as they knew no better. When chess started to take them outside this environment, their eyes were opened. For Phiona, this created a hunger for better things in life and she worked on her game. The story is based on a book by Tim Crothers called The Queen of Katwe: A Story of Life, Chess, and One Extraordinary Girl’s Dream of Becoming a Grandmaster. While Nalwanga does the real Mutesi justice, it is Nyong’o who steals the show. As Phiona’s mother, Nakku, Nyong’o digs deep to find a typical African widow with four mouths to feed. If you thought she was only good at taking lashes as a slave girl, you need to see her interpretation of a mother with nothing to give, yet willing to die trying. This is by far the best work she has done, so much so that if Oscars could be reallocated, then hers should be for this movie. Oyelowo does his best despite a few battles with his English accent that would not let the African one settle in. He is a master at acting so where the accent let him down, he made up for it with a strong performance. The story is not about his character so the viewer will barely see where he faltered. Kudos to the casting team who decided to go with an all-central African supporting cast, save for Akin Omotoso, Maggie Benedict and Aaron Moloisi, who had bit parts. This allowed us to travel to Uganda and relive Phiona’s path without having to see the usual suspects. If you are about positivity and want a break from starving Africans, you need to see this film. If you liked The Lion King, Pawn of Sacrifice and Long Live the Queen, you will like this.