If you cook at all, when did you start doing so? How early, or late in your life, did you start boiling an egg and then graduate to frying it? When, if at all, did things get sophisticated on the stove? We have watched shows like Junior Masterchef and marvelled at what some kids can do in the kitchen. If that’s a show you liked, then you will enjoy SABC3’s Yum.Me (Sundays at 10am). This show invited young chefs between the ages of 8 and 16 to come and compete. It seeks to show us our cultural differences through the culinary arts. Kids are the fastest to learn any new skill so it is also an opportunity to see who has learnt what and from where. The show has segments which all the contestants have to go through in order to have a shot at becoming the ultimate winner. To begin with, they make whatever they are passionate about and then go through a food knowledge round. In both segments they get to score points and these will help them in the final round, known as the cook-off. If you have a child in this age group, try to have them watch and see if it stimulates something in them. This is one of those shows that you should try at home, under parental supervision of course. Do not forget to check where the fire extinguisher is before you begin. If this is not your thing, perhaps you might want to check out Biting About (Tuesdays at 8.30pm). Janez Vermeiren and Amanda du Pont venture around Joburg, hunting for the best hangout spots with the best vibe and food. It is almost like an excavation whose mission is to steer away from the obvious overexposed places and instead unearth those venues no one talks about. We will see who makes the best burgers, pizzas or even healthiest meals.   “Being from Cape Town originally, I must say that Joburg has a charm and vibe that is second to none. I was pleasantly surprised by how friendly everyone is and the architecture that is both modern and classic with such a cosmopolitan mix of people,” said Vermeiren. His co-host, the beautiful Du Pont, agreed that she too feels that this is going to be one sumptuous show that you don’t want to miss. “This is not your ordinary presenter-driven show, we immerse ourselves in the food and experiences during the show and people will get to experience life in Joburg through us. We save them the time and money that they would spend by pointing out what’s hot and what’s not,” she said.