 Johannesburg - There might be a debate about whether Anthony Laffor is more of an impact player than a starter. But no-one can dispute that the Liberian is a man for big occasions. He has saved Mamelodi Sundowns a number of times when it mattered most. His goal against Chippa United took the Brazilians to the final of the MTN8. He followed that by guiding the Brazilians to the final of the CAF Champions League when they beat Zesco United 2-0, overturning their 2-1 loss in Ndola where Laffor played a central role in helping the club get that crucial away goal. Sundowns will need that Laffor on Saturday when they take on Zamalek at 3pm at Lucas Moripe Stadium in the first leg of the Champions League final. The return leg will be played in Alexandria next week on Sunday at 8.30pm. “Big games are for big players,’ Laffor said. “You need to keep your feet on the ground though. Respect your teammates and the coach’s instructions. You must work hard for the team. That’s what I have been doing. That’s why you don’t see me crying to the media and saying that oh, I haven’t been playing. Why am I not playing?’ That’s not who I am. Whenever I am given a chance, I make the most of it. I have four league trophies. That’s an achievement. But there is nothing that can beat winning the Champions League.’ The 31-year-old stressed that reaching the final isn’t an achievement, but winning it is. Sundowns’ class of 2001 reached the final but lost to Egyptian giants Al-Ahly. Their biggest mistake was that they didn’t make the most of their home advantage. They drew the first leg in Pretoria (1-1) before losing 3-0 in Cairo. “2-0 or 3-0 would be a good result because it’s not going to be easy in Egypt,’ Laffor said. “We need to be mindful that we don’t concede.’ Laffor is likely to spearhead the Brazilians’ attack in the absence of Leonardo Castro who was the focal point. The big decision though will be whether  he does that as part of the starting XI or he comes from the bench. “I am not (just) an impact player,’ Laffor said. “I started against Zesco and I scored. I came from the bench against Chippa and I scored. There isn’t a difference (between the Laffor who starts and the one who comes from the bench). In life sometimes things don’t go your way and then people judge you. I don’t let that affect me. I just keep my feet on the ground and listen to what the coach wants.’ @extrastrongsa The Star