Johannesburg - Bidvest Wits striker Eleazar Rodgers is itching to get the opportunity to make an impact for Bafana Bafana in Saturday's World Cup qualifying game away to Burkina Faso. This is the third time Rodgers has been selected for the senior national side, but there has been a four year gap between each of his call-ups, the first coming in 2008 and the second in 2012. Indeed, the Cape Town-born marksman has only two caps to his name, having played 75 minutes of a friendly game against Malawi in 2008, while having sat on the bench for a 1-1 draw against Ethiopia in a 2014 World Cup qualifying match played in June 2012. After receiving what he says was a surprise summons to the latest South African squad, he now faces a battle with fellow strikers Thamsanqa Gabuza, Thobani Mncwango, Tokelo Rantie and Sibusiso Vilakazi to earn himself further national team game-time in Ouagadougou on Saturday night. In terms of what the lanky 31-year-old brings to a side - the ability to act as a target man, to bring others into play and to provide an aerial threat, it's Gabuza who the 31-year-old Rodgers is most likely to find in the way of a possible starting berth. The Orlando Pirates forward has the advantage of being favoured by Bafana coach Shakes Mashaba and also has good experience on the continent in pan-African club competition. But he is not in the best of form at the moment, while Rodgers, a consistent if not spectacular goal-scorer during his time at Santos, Ajax Cape Town and Platinum Stars, has just played an important part in Wits' MTN8 triumph with two goals and an assist in the tournament. While not getting ahead of himself at a press conference this week, Rodgers is clearly hoping to finally get the opportunity to contribute to his country's cause. “I've been here two times before and I was hoping for a third time, and it came very quickly now - as I said it was a surprise - but I believe everything happens for a good reason so I'm grateful for the opportunity,” he said. “Coming into the team after the previous times, [when] I never really had the opportunity to play, there are obviously many reasons why I never got the chance to play, but we aren't here to discuss that and I'm positive [of getting a chance this time]. “I'm sure the coach has his plans on how he wants to go about things so it's just for me to - if I get the opportunity - play my part and help the team do what is needed on the day.” African News Agency (ANA)