There was a little bit of Wasim Akram about the way Wayne Parnell came around the wicket to the right-handers against Australia on Sunday. Left-arm quick bowlers who can make the ball “talk” either way are a sight to behold, and while Parnell is a long way off being close to the Pakistani “King of Swing”, it took him just six deliveries to make a breakthrough when he dismissed George Bailey. Parnell pitched it up and brought it back sharply into the Aussie No 4 to hit the off-stump, and the Cape Cobras star celebrated with his Paul Pogba “dab” impersonation. He then mixed it up by banging it in to Mitchell Marsh, who looked awkward in trying to fend the ball off his hips, but gloved it to Quinton de Kock behind. And Matthew Wade was also somewhat rushed as he attempted to pull Parnell over midwicket, but held out to JP Duminy on the boundary. It was a good comeback with 3/40 in seven overs after conceding 1/56 in eight at Centurion, and Parnell said in Durban on Monday ahead of Wednesday’s third ODI at Kingsmead (1.30pm start) that the change in approach was planned beforehand. “It’s actually bowling a bit shorter. I felt I was a bit too full on Friday, and with the angle as well by coming around the wicket, the extra bounce inland – with the (batsmen) staying leg-side of the ball. That was something that I identified with (Proteas bowling coach) Charl Langeveldt that could potentially work at the Bullring,” he said after helping the Proteas move into a 2-0 series lead. “So I was pleased that I could execute that. But coming to Durban now, it’s completely different and we will see tomorrow at training what works and try to implement that. “It’s always nice when you have a sort of average game and then in the next game, you come out and correct your mistakes. So that’s really pleasing. But cricket is a funny game – you’re the hero today and the villain tomorrow.” Parnell knows that all too well. The Proteas are always searching for variety in their ODI attack to complement the likes of Dale Steyn and Kagiso Rabada, which is part of the reason why Parnell has always been close to the national team since making his debut in 2009 as a 19-year-old in Perth. The former SA Under-19 captain from Port Elizabeth has immense skill and leadership ability, but injury hasn’t been his friend over the years, while he has also not been given a lengthy playing opportunity – amassing just 54 ODIs over eight years. But now he’s hoping for an extended run in the team after impressing for the Cobras last season. “The massive thing for me was game time – just playing consistently. Any cricketer will tell you that you can practise for hours in the nets, but you can never replicate game time,” Parnell said. “So over the last 12 months, being out of the national team and playing domestic cricket week-in and week-out, putting in good performances, gaining confidence from that… “Sport is all about confidence, so for me, in terms of consistency and swinging the ball and this and that – I think everyone’s got their own opinion or version of how I should play my cricket. “But for me, it’s just about fitting into the set-up as a bowling unit and batting unit. That’s sort of my main thing that I look at, and just playing matches.”  ashfak.mohamed@inl.co.za  @ashfakmohamed Independent Media