Fans are hoping for a joint perfomance from Nigerian star Wizkid and South African DJ and producer Maphorisa. Fresh from his recent collaboration with Drake, Wizkid is this year’s most nominated MAMA artist, with an incredible 6 nominations, including two nods for Song of the Year, plus the prestigious Artist of the Year, Best Male and Personality of the Year. East coast foursome Sauti Sol is not far behind with an amazing 4 nominations including Best Group, Artist of the Year, Song of the Year and Best Collaboration (for “Unconditionally Bae” featuring Alikiba). Lighting up the MAMA stage on 22 October with dazzling live performances will be Nigerian AfroBeat giant Wizkid, Angolan “Kizomba” icon C4 Pedro, Kenyan AfroPop supergroup Sauti Sol, and legendary South African “House” DJ and producer, DJ Maphorisa – as they all head to Johannesburg to perform at MTV Africa Music Awards Johannesburg 2016. The MTV Africa Music Awards Johannesburg 2016 will broadcast LIVE from the Ticketpro Dome, Johannesburg on MTV (DStv channel 130) and MTV Base (DStv channel 322) from 21:00 CAT on 22 October (live Red Carpet show will be streamed on www.mtvbase.com from 18:30 CAT). C4 Pedro is going head-to-head against the continent’s best Portuguese-speaking artists in the Best Lusophone category, where he is pitched against fellow countrymen NGA and Preto Show, alongside Mozambique’s Lizha James and Nelson Frietas (Cape Verde).  Uhuru alumnus DJ Maphorisa, who has been hitting the headlines recently for his co-production credit on Drake’s “One Dance”, is back in the spotlight for his solo achievements at this year’s awards, notching up two nominations, for Song of the Year and Best Collaboration, for “Soweto Baby”, featuring Wizkid. Wizkid, DJ Maphorisa, C4 Pedro and Sauti Sol join previously announced African performers Diamond, Emtee, Future, Kwesta, Patoranking Alikiba, Babes Wodumo, Cassper Nyovest, Nasty C, Ycee and Yemi Alade for the uplifting telecast, broadcasting live from the Ticketpro Dome, Johannesburg on MTV (DStv channel 130) and MTV Base (DStv channel 322) at 21:00 CAT on 22 October. Highlighting the “gold standard” in contemporary music, creativity and achievement, The MTV Africa Music Awards Johannesburg 2016 promises to be the biggest and best ever, with music lovers partying up a storm at the Ticketpro Dome for this spectacular showcase. Tickets for the awards are available priced R 250 (standing only), and R 300 (bleachers) via www.ticketpros.co.za, and at Ticketpro retail outlets or dealers.  IOL adapted from press release