 Johannesburg - “We greatly appreciate the initiative of the African elephant range states of Benin, Burkina Faso, Central African Republic, Chad, Ethiopia, Kenya, Liberia, Mali, the Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sri Lanka and Uganda in submitting Document COP 17, Proposal 16,” said Tshekedi Khama, Botswana’s Minister of Environment, Wildlife and Tourism on Monday. Botswana is home to the world’s largest elephant population, which represents almost 35 percent of the African savannah elephant population. “Botswana elephants are currently listed under Appendix 2. Fully aware of the serious poaching crisis facing elephants across much of Africa, we unreservedly and voluntarily relinquish this status and support an uplisting of all African elephants to Appendix 1,” said Khama. A Botswana-led survey referred to as the Great Elephant Census shows that in 15 African countries – savanna elephant populations declined by 30 percent. That is 144 000 elephants in just seven years. “Poaching is so intense that in 10 years’ time we could lose 50 percent of Africa’s remaining elephants, and in countries with small isolated elephant populations, it is likely that elephants will be completely extirpated,” stated the minister. There is high human cost to this illegal trade too; rangers from the local communities are losing their lives because of the demand for ivory. The minister said now was the time for action. “The current elephant poaching crisis that we as a global community face must be dealt with emphatically,” said Khama. “Never before have we had such accurate information on elephant numbers in Africa. The real measures of success now include stemming the demand for ivory internationally, protecting remaining herds from poaching, and securing elephant habitats. “The struggle for their protection extends beyond Eastern and Central Africa. It is clear that the southern African strongholds are now at great poaching risk, and there is concerning evidence that elephant poaching is moving south,” he explained. The criminal networks that facilitate much of this trade are highly organised and fluid, operating over several regions in the continent. Therefore no population should be considered secure. “While Botswana has demonstrated conservation success with regard to its elephant population, we will not ignore our responsibility to other African elephant range states and their elephant populations,” Khama elaborated. “Although Botswana has previously supported the limited, legal ivory sales from countries that manage their elephant herds sustainably, we now recognise that we can no longer support these sales, and we cannot deal with this issue in a vacuum. “We must unite solidarity with our colleagues worldwide to stop this crisis. Put simply, a threat to elephants anywhere is a threat to elephants everywhere. “We greatly appreciate that many non-range states, particularly consumer countries, have already taken actions or made commitments to adopt measures to close their legal domestic ivory markets, such as China (including Hong Kong), France, and the United States of America. “There is clear and growing global consensus, which includes major consumer countries that the ivory trade needs to be stopped if elephants are to be conserved effectively.” The minister said making all ivory illegal sends a clear message to the world and notifies markets and consumers that ivory trade endangers elephants and is banned under international law. “If we do not take decisive action now and wait until the next CoP in 2019, the results will be catastrophic; many more thousands of elephants will have been poached for their ivory, many more rangers will have lost their lives, and the criminal syndicates and corrupt officials who are enabling the trade to flourish, will continue to profit from this destructive trade,” said Khama. “This will send the clearest signal yet that the ivory trade will not be tolerated, and will allow us to divert resources into the things that matter; supporting local communities, maintaining habitat connectivity, managing human-elephant conflict, and tackling the criminal networks that have caused so much destruction for our continents proudest emblem – the African elephant.” Botswana now supports a total, unambiguous and permanent international ban on the ivory trade, including domestic markets, and supports the inclusion of all African elephant populations on Appendix I. African News Agency