Johannesburg - Sex and sensuality, nakedness and all things kinky had the crowd excited at this year's edition of Sexpo. Thursday's events at the Nasrec Expo Centre in Joburg set the mood for the exhibition, which ends on Sunday (October 30). Under-18s are prohibited, but there were an abundance of middle-aged visitors and a few older people in attendance when The Star paid a visit. Australian nude artist Tim Patch, known by his stage name Pricasso, is back again this year to showcase his penis drawing skills. Using water paint and his penis, Pricasso sketched a portrait of one of The Star's reporters. The Salvation Army damped everyone's spirits slightly by using its station at the expo to raise awareness about human trafficking. Ambassador for the organisation, Jabulile Luhlongwana, said: "South Africa has the highest number of human trafficking cases in the world. "We are on this platform to raise awareness that although sex brings pleasure, it should not be forced and it should not endanger people's lives. It is best enjoyed when people involved grant full consent," she said. But many seemed uninterested in the political, with their minds and eyes fixated on all that was kinky. Sensualist Jonti Searll, who publicly aroused a female model to reach a real orgasm, drew quite a bit of attention from the crowd. Searll said his show left many fascinated and wanting to see more. "During times of intimacy, people focus on the end goal, which is to reach an orgasm, and that is it. In that way, people are not enjoying the process. We live in such a sex-negative and repressive society when it comes to this topic," he said. "More sex education is important; if young people were only taught about sex correctly, they would not become victims of teenage pregnancy and diseases," said Searll. The Sexpo will continue throughout the weekend. It starts at 11am and ends at 11pm on Friday. It will take place from 10am to 11pm on Saturday and from 10am until 6pm on Sunday. @June_Hlongwane1  june.hlongwane@inl.co.za  The Star