Cape Town - Thanks to the introduction of a third weekly Air Austral flight from Johannesburg, Reunion is expected to become a popular destination for South Africans looking for a “quick” but attractive break. “Air Austral has decided to introduce this additional flight in response to the increase in demand as well as the need for more flexibility in length of stay,” explains Air Austral Manager for South Africa Lenél Vining. The new flight will allow South African travellers to spend a long action-filled weekend in Reunion to recharge their batteries. Says Vining: “As no visa is required for South Africans for stays of up to 90 days, travellers can decide today and travel tomorrow. The flying time is around four hours, making quick getaways practical and attractive.” For South Africans who would like to extend their action-packed Reunion break with a few days on the beach, Air Austral now also offers direct flights to Mauritius. Vining explains: “Seamless connecting flights to Mauritius means that travellers can create the perfect 'combo' holidays. After the “ultimate” adrenaline experience of Reunion, continue to Mauritius for a fly and flop relax.”  A photo posted by Camille Jolivet (@camille.ccp) on Oct 20, 2016 at 5:06am PDT  Reunion has seen a great increase in demand from the South African public with rise in bookings over the past few months. “There has been a huge increase in awareness and numbers of South African travelling to Reunion,” says Vining. She explains that the rise in popularity of the destination with the South African market can be attributed in part to the various marketing campaigns on social media. Also the growing trend towards experiential travel has also helped to position the destination. Vining explains: “The destination fits in 100 percent with the growing trend towards experiential travel. Travellers are looking for that one experience that they will never forget and they are sure to find it in Reunion! It is a place like no other and no photos or film can describe the actual experience. Do it right and it will blow you away.”  A photo posted by Maëva B. (@maevoush_974) on Oct 20, 2016 at 4:24am PDT  For travellers looking to get away over the December holidays, Vining says the introduction of the new flight has greatly improved seat availability during December and January. The new flight, which will take off on December 9, will depart on Fridays at 14h45 and arrive in Reunion at 20h35. Return flights will leave on Fridays at 10h40 in Reunion and arrive in Johannesburg at 12h55. Adapted from a press release for IOL