Naypyidaw - On The Go Tours, a tour operator specialising in locally led group tours and tailor-made holidays to worldwide destinations, has launched three newly curated tours in Myanmar that are perfect for those seeking an adventure that’s truly off the beaten path. Opening its doors to tourism in 2012, Myanmar is still largely undiscovered by mainstream travellers. With prices starting from R8 090 per person, visitors can now explore the country’s untouched landscape and get a glimpse of how life was for much of Asia decades ago. Ranging from five to 14 days, the itineraries showcase the very best of Myanmar, including the spectacular stupa-filled plains of Bagan, the picturesque floating villages of Inle Lake and the traditional Burmese culture of Mandalay. With departure dates throughout 2016 and 2017, each tour starts and ends in the vibrant city of Yangon, home to the largest collection of surviving colonial architecture in all of South East Asia.  Yangon City Stay The five day Yangon City Stay tour showcases Yangon’s highlights, beginning with a visit to the famous Botataung Pagoda featuring a 40-metre high golden stupa with a hollow inside. Travellers can walk through the maze-like walkway and marvel through the glass that showcases ancient relics and artifacts. Explorers will then delve deeper into the fascinating temples of Myanmar, visiting the Chaukhtatgyi Paya, a 65-metre long reclining Buddha and the Shwedagon Pagoda adorned with 27 metric tons of gold leaf.  A photo posted by Franck Singler (@francksingler) on Oct 19, 2016 at 8:43am PDT  The tour continues with a ferry-ride across the Yangon River to Dala Village where travellers can experience authentic rural life in Myanmar before heading back to Yangon. On The Go Tours (onthegotours.com / 020 7371 1113) is offering a five day Yangon City Stay from R8,090 per person.  Meet Me in Myanmar The eight day Meet Me in Myanmar tour takes explorers through Myanmar’s beautiful landscape and key cultural delights. The tour begins in the bustling city of Yangon and continues onto Mandalay for a boat trip to Mingun, home to what was intended to be the world’s largest pagoda. Travellers will then visit the ancient city of Amarapura and the Mahagandayon Monastery before heading back to Mandalay to visit the Mahamuni Pagoda, featuring an ancient 13-foot tall bronze Buddha believed to be over 2 000 years old.  A photo posted by Chow Kam Ming (@kmdd) on Oct 8, 2016 at 5:59pm PDT  The tour continues with a cruise along the Irrawaddy River, which runs from the Himalayas to the Indian Ocean, passing scenes of everyday Burmese life and breathtaking scenery. Arriving into Bagan, visitors spend the day exploring the plains, home to over 2 000 temples and pagodas dating back some 800 years. Adventurers will also take a boat ride on the Irrwaddy River, as the sun sets on one of Asia’s most impressive skylines, before ending their journey in Yangon. On The Go Tours (onthegotours.com / 020 7371 1113) is offering an eight day Meet Me in Myanmar tour from R25 090 per person.  Best of Myanmar & Beach An extension of the Best of Myanmar tour, the fourteen day Best of Myanmar & Beach tour takes travellers through a land of ancient traditions and ends on the golden beaches of Ngapali, named Asia’s number one beach by TripAdvisor. The tour starts with visits to the sacred monuments in Yangon, Mandalay and Amarapura before meandering down the Irrawaddy River to the plains of Bagan.  A photo posted by @ww_watt on Aug 30, 2016 at 2:34am PDT  Here, travellers will embark on a sunset cruise, taking in the striking view of stupa upon stupa. The tour continues with a visit to the extinct volcano of Mount Popa and a light trek through the Palaung Hills, passing through beautiful Burmese countryside, tea plantations and rice paddies. Visitors will then explore the floating villages of Inle Lake by wooden boat where they will watch Intha fishermen skillfully catching fish and visit the magnificent Phaung Daw Oo Pagoda. The tour comes to an end with three days spent relaxing on the beautiful untouched beaches of Ngapali before heading back to Yangon airport. On The Go Tours (onthegotours.com / 020 7371 1113) is offering a fourteen day Best of Myanmar & Beach tour from R45 490 per person. Adapted from a press release for IOL