“If we had to push forward the most beautiful woman in SA, if someone had said hey hey South Africa, we need hot women, beautiful women, what have you got, I would call Lee-Anne Liebenberg and my next guest. She's graced the covers of Cosmopolitan at the tender age of 15...” This was the Anele Mdoda's introduction to former model and media personality Claire Mawisa on her afternoon talk show Real Talk with Anele. Anele also touched on Claire's ageless beauty, “You have looked like this since you were 15, since we were first introduced to you”, said Anele Claire gracefully thanked her her beautiful mom for her genes. The Carte Blanche host then revealed details of how her friendship with Malik Yoba started. Claire revealed that Malik after took notice of her at the Kaya FM building, but the two didn't get the chance to speak at the time. “We actually never spoke when he saw me. He came to the Kaya FM building, one of the producers had booked him for an interview. We never spoke and nobody introduced us,” she explained. “He [Malik] was explaining to somebody that he saw somebody in South Africa with dreadlocks, really beautiful. The girl was like 'is it Claire?' And he was like 'I don't know'. Then she googles my face, [and asks] 'Is this her?' And he's like 'Oh my goodness, that's her'. And then she's like 'She's on Twitter, tweet her'.” Claire further explained that Malik then tweeted her and they later started skyping. “We became friends,” she said. Despite being friends, Claire clarified that she still hasn't officially met him and emphasised that there is no “love connection” between them “We still haven't met. We've Skyped, we've spoken over the phone, I know a lot of his friends, he knows some of my friends, like the world is small. We have not met.”   “There is no love connection. There is no romance. I think he was really overzealous.” “I'm sorry to disappoint people who wanted to see us…”( she made that heart sign)…oh Claire, some of us were really hoping for happy ending. - IOL