Scotland - It’s been described as a celebration of links golf played over three of the world's most loved links  - the Old Course at St Andrews, which is the game's greatest stage, as well as intimidating, windswept Carnoustie and breathtakingly beautiful Kingsbarns. I am, of course, referring to the Alfred Dunhill Links Championship which begins on Thursday. First held in 2001, it is the brainchild of South Africa's own Johann Rupert, chairman of Richemont, and brings together many of the world's top golfers along with celebrities from other walks of life. I have been privileged to attend every event since its inception, and a special moment for me over the years was witnessing our own Branden Grace shooting the lights out at Kingsbarns with a 12-under-par 60 en route to victory in 2012, but a highlight for the doting, fresh-faced, rosy-cheeked Scottish lasses - many of them from St Andrews University - is following every move of Golden Globe-winning actor Hugh Grant, he of Four Weddings and a Funeral fame and a golf nut (four bogeys and a double at treacherous Carnoustie in today's first round?) strut his stuff around the three superb layouts. British heartthrob Grant is a regular at the tournament and, yes, crazy about the game. Here, then, is an interview with the movie star. Q: What makes the Alfred Dunhill Links Championship (ADLC) special for you? HG: It is the golf orgy to end all orgies and I have loved it every year I've been. There's nothing I don't like about it, except how badly I always play. I am intimidated by the knowledgeable local galleries which is unnecessary because they are incredibly friendly and supportive. Q: Is there a particular hole that you dread? HG: I feel uneasy every time I play the 16th at Kingsbarns because that is where I once lost a ball putting - in front of a sizeable audience. I misjudged the line of the putt and it rolled off the side of the green into a burn and was carried out to sea! Q: But (with a handicap that fluctuates between seven and nine) you're not a bad golfer. You once told David Letterman that you keep a copy of David Pelz's 'putting bible' to hand. If you could offer other players one tip from that book, what would it be? HG: I have moved on from Pelz. I now read books on performing under pressure. One tip is to keep a lot of saliva in your mouth. That is why you may see me dribbling slightly while standing over a putt. Q: Do you think that amateur golfers who play professional sport have an edge on you at the ADLC because of their sporting background? HG: Yes. They all blossom in front of a sporting crowd. I wither. Q: If you had a choice of winning an Academy award or the Claret Jug (as British Open champion), which would you pick? HG: The Claret Jug. And I haven't altogether given up hope. I love seaside courses (where the British Opens are played) and I play better in the presence of seagulls! Q: Are you more nervous on the first tee at St Andrews, or shooting the first scene in a movie? HG: You can find a way to get through the first hole at St Andrews. But you can't hide your nerves on a film set. That's why I stopped doing porn films ... Q: Your brother Jamie Grant (a New York banker) is also playing this week, tell us something about him. HG: Well, I like to play golf in complete silence while Jamie talks incessantly during a round, and it drives me mad. Q: Most golfers have one club in their bag that they feel they can always hit well. Do you have a 'go to' club. If so, what is it? HG: My 7-iron was a loyal friend for many years. Then it too betrayed me. Q: Finally, of all the professionals you have played alongside in the Alfred Dunhill LInks Championship over the years, who has stood out for you? HG: (fellow Englishman) David Howell. So helpful. He's a good friend and a great golfer. But when I ask him for swing thoughts, he says 'think about giving up. You're crap ..." (Not all crap, actually, Grant's best round in the Alfred Dunhil Links Championship was a very handy three-over-par 75 on the Old Course at St Andrews, which included an eagle two at the par-4 10th hole). Independent Media