 Cape Town - The South African Communist Party on Monday said while it has cancelled plans to picket outside the Pretoria Regional Court after the NPA dropped fraud charges against Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan, it still believed the original decision to prosecute the minister was part of an agenda to remove him from office. “It is very important for our organs of state to desist from association with such agendas,” the party said in response to National Director of Public Prosecutions Shaun Abrahams’s announcement that the charges against Gordhan and former SA Revenue Service employees, Oupa Magashula and Ivan Pillay, would be withdrawn. “The NDPP was bound to drop the charges, from the outset, as they had no basis in law. The charges were ill-considered and amateurishly handled in terms both of the investigation by the Hawks and the NDPP’s widely broadcast press conference early this month to announce those charges, as well as the subsequent contradictions including the widely reported hostage incident that took place at the South African Receiver of Revenue (SARS).” The SACP called for an inquiry into Abrahams’ fitness to hold office, and wants Parliament to intervene. “It is equally important for Parliament to amend the NPA Act to give effect to a Parliamentary selection process recommending names for consideration by the President in making the appointment of the NDPP in terms of our constitution,” SACP spokesman Alex Mashilo said. “The SACP reiterates that the absence of a Parliamentary selection process in the NPA Act easily opens up space for allegations of partisanship in certain cases and errors committed by the NDPP with wider implications to the President who appoints the NDPP without that process.” The SACP also did not pull any punches as it criticised the Hawks’ handling of the investigation into Gordhan. “The head of the Hawks, Berning Ntlemeza, is a man who…was found North Gauteng High Court Judge Elias Matojane to be ‘biased and dishonest’, to be lacking ‘integrity and honour’ and to have ‘made false statements under oath. “The unacceptable behaviour of the Hawks cannot be understood in isolation from this character of the head of this important state organ.” African News Agency