Johannesburg – The University of Stellenbosch has appointed former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela chairwoman of social justice in its law faculty, the institution said on Thursday. The university said Madonsela’s appointment was a tremendous honour and one that would “contribute significantly” to the faculty’s “continued commitment to champion the realisation of a constitutional vision for South African society”. “Advocate Madonsela will take up the chair in 2018, after a sabbatical. The focus of the chair will be on issues of social justice – including administrative justice,” said the university. “In her new role, Madonsela will be able to continue her work on those themes that became synonymous with her seven-year tenure as South Africa’s third Public Protector. “These include ethical governance in public institutions and realising the Constitution’s mandate of a public administration that responds to people’s needs, is accountable and transparent and that promotes efficient, economic and effective use of resources. “As part of her remit, Madonsela will not only engage in teaching and research, but will remain involved in civil society initiatives.” Madonsela’s term of office as public protector ended last Friday. Madonsela has been praised for her knowledge of the law and successful investigations into President Jacob Zuma’s Nkandla homestead and SABC’s controversial top official Hlaudi Motsoeneng, among others. Madonsela she said she felt honoured by the academic appointment. “I am supremely honoured by the offer of the chair in social justice by the University of Stellenbosch,” said Madonesela, who was replaced as public protector by Busisiwe Mkhwebane. “I hope to work with my colleagues at the law faculty to play our part in accelerating the pace of achieving the constitutional promise of an inclusive society based in social justice, shared prosperity, friendship and peace. “I am also looking forward to working with young people at the university and beyond on these matters,” Madonsela said. African News Agency