Cape Town - A devastated mother is desperately seeking answers after her five-year-old daughter burnt to death in her grandmother s Wendy house.Mom of two Logan Herman, 20, was at her boyfriend s house in Tafelsig when she was called home to Beacon Valley, Mitchells Plain, in the early hours of Saturday morning.The night before, she had left her daughter, Lauren, with her mom Belinda Herman, 40. Several hours later, Logan, whose two-year-old son was with her, came home to the shocking sight of her daughter s charred remains. My mother said the house was set alight by gangsters who thought another gangster was hiding here, Logan explained. But there is no one here. My mother said she came out [to pee] then she saw the fire and called for my 15-year-old sister. My sister woke up and the blanket we use as a divider was already burning. When she pulled it so she could get to Lauren, she burned her arms and hair, she said. But at the scene in Metropolitan Street on Sunday, Logan broke down when her cousin gave her a different version of events. [Your mother] is lying to you, Logan, Leticia Jansen said. She was not here when the fire started. Belinda came running towards the house [from across the field] when people came out to check. It was through her own negligence [that Lauren died] and now she wants to involve gangsters in her lie, Jansen added.But the grandmother insisted that gangs attacked her home. I did not kill her [Lauren], she said.An angry and confused Logan, who could barely look at her mom, sobbed: Ek is baie lief vir my ma, hoekom doen sy dan dit aan my? Hoekom lieg my ma vir my? (I love my mom very much, why is she doing this to me. Why is mom lying to me?) My child survived three fires since she was three months old, I will find out who did this and I will hit that person even if it is my mother, she vowed.Police spokesperson Captain FC van Wyk said the cause of the fire is still unknown. At 3.48am, a female burnt to death in a Wendy house in Metropolitan Street, Van Wyk says. The cause of the fire is unknown. Daily Voice