Latoya Makhene is a focused, hard working woman with a clear vision, and it is her determination to succeed that has led to her longevity and success in the industry.The Generations star spoke to IOL about her journey in the entertainment industry, the challenges, victories while juggling work, motherhood, her ancestral calling and now music. Growing up in a music family, did that influence your decision to become a musician? My father never hoped that any of his children would be following in his footsteps. It's a rough industry to be in and if you don't have a gut of steel, if you don't have what it takes, if you don't have the balls to be in this industry, then you shouldn't be here. And they (my parents) saw it even before I could speak. They had to put me in front of the speaker when it was time to sleep, so they knew it was in me , they just kind of hoping they could stir me in a different direction. My father guided me as best as he could, so I often say that before I actually went to school to study music, he was my first vocal coach. He taught me the essence of singing, of music, of being able to take my voice and my vocals to a different level. So it was wonderful having him there, on top of it I learnt about the music industry with my parents by my side. You’re back in music now? It's funny when someone says you're back into music because I've never ever left it. I guess I’ve never gotten that big break that I've needed. I've never left music because even after 'School girls', the girl group that I was in with my sisters, yes things went a bit quite there because our mom, who was not only our manager but our biggest supporter, had just passed away. And it was just too difficult for us to continue getting onto stage and she wasn't there and we needed time to heal. We just went with things that resonated with us. For me I stayed in music but in staying in music, I was then largely involved in 'Session music'. So when people do shooting commercials, I will then be available to provide vocals for them But also, you know if there was ever a little break that was like a two year break because I then gotten married and had two children, and I needed to find my feet in my new journey. But never stopped writing music, never stopped going into the studio to record. How did the Mabala Noise deal come about? I remember this meeting with me and Reggy had a lot to do with Durban July. They were setting up their own marquee and wanted me to come and be there, you know (just make an appearance), not sing or anything. Coming back from the Durban July and I asked Reggie if there are any collaborations I can be part of and he said yes. China Man has a song that he has done and we need someone to sing. And I wrote the rest of the song in studio but still I wasn't an artist of Mabala Noise. After listening to the song, Reggy said “oh my goodness, I want to sign you.” I was hesitant at first because I have my own recording company, Tadiwa Music. After a lot of praying and meditation I decided to give myself a chance as an artist - to have someone invest in me so that I can focus on making music, and being creative. Her friendship with the childhood idol, Brenda Fassie: Many years ago Brenda Fassie said to my father, “no one will take my place in this industry but this child”. Brenda and I have been fans of each other for many years, in fact I was I was her biggest fan. My parents knew every concert, every show, every festival. She even knew that every time she goes onto stage, they will save me my little seat right here in front of the stage so that I will sit down and watch her perform. I loved her performances. So literally, a few months before she passed away, I got to go into studio with her, and that was the biggest moment for me. It was such an honour, because I finally got to sing with the person I looked up to the most as a singer.    Does your calling have a connection with your music? I think there is a big connection between ubungoma ne ngoma ( my calling and my music). Music is spiritual, and it's a spiritual calling on its own. Music for me is healing, (bongaka) my calling is healing, that is the work and gift I've been given to continue to heal people. Not only do I feel like I heal when I sing but other people get the sense of healing when they hear my music. What has taken to portray the devious Tshidi on Generations? The one role I've always wanted to play was a complete bitch and this character came along. I literally had to do a lot of research to understand this character, to understand what it to be a wife of a mobster. It was interesting for me to have to find dark places to go to and guess I will never get bored playing this character because there is so much work that goes into her and that needs to be done. The abuse: It was challenging for me because of where I come from in my personal life, having to open up wounds that I didn't want to open up but it in the same breath - I'm such a perfectionist that I don't want to give half hearted performance because of my personal affiliations. Mamlambo ( the snake): I was ready to quit Generations with all this ‘mamlambo’ story because it's too close to home. It was difficult because not only am I a tradition healer but where I come from we don't practice witchcraft, my ancestors would kill me , just for shit* like that and on top of that I now work with a f***ken real snake. Mind due I'm scared of snakes. I really had to pray and meditate and ask God and my ancestors what's happening and why. I asked the producers: why “are you doing this to me”, I asked if it was because I'm a traditional healer. The response was “because you can carry it, it's not everyone who can carry a story like this” but you can because you are just that strong an actor. I spoke to my God and my ancestors because I really was not wanting to do this. I remember my prayer of mine where I said” God you brought me into this work and you will take me out and I'm asking you to always inspire the writers to always have story for me and if it is that people will learn and people will be taught through my character, so be it. if there's a way I can continue being a healer or teacher even through this work, with this character, let it be! I have already sent the prayer out and God said yeah let people heal, let people see what's going on, abantu baya thwala (people are praticing witchcraft, people are in abusive relationships. Right now the story where she is abusing her own mother, there are people who are going through that. So I guess I'm a vessel.   Her secret to longevity: For me it's always been important to have good relationships, wherever you are , whether it's your personal life or your work environment. Respect is a big thing where I come from; self respect, respect for others, respect for your work and respect for God. When can your fans expect your CD? I have a a lot songs that I have written and I just need to get to the studios, that will happen very soon. It's long overdue... I am ready to give my supporters, my fans a bit of me, I've been giving them me through characters, I've been giving them me through collaborations, like my collaboration with China Man, I've given me through collaboration with DJ Cleo, I've given bit of me, but I'm ready to give more of me, no all of me. I've got to keep some of e to myself. IOL