Johannesburg -  Lenovo has launched its latest Moto smartphones in South Africa, a move that sees the return of Motorola phones. Now, however, they come with a twist to take the next era of mobile technology to another level in the country. This comes after Lenovo bought Motorola Mobility from Google in late 2014 for $2.9 billion, and rebranded Motorola as “Moto” in 2016. The Chinese computing giant on Friday said it would be “attacking” the highly competitive SA market with its Moto Z, a razor thin - just 5.2mm - premium smartphone made from military aircraft-grade aluminum and stainless steel. But distinguishing feature of the Moto Z smartphone range are the Mods - the range of attachable devices capable of transforming mobiles into whatever users need. The Moto Mods Family includes the JBL SoundBoost speakers, the Insta-Share Projector, power packs from Incipio to save battery life, and the Hasselblad True Zoom that enables high resolution photographs. The smartphone also comes with a water-repellant coating, which shields the phone from rain, splashes or spills. Graham Braum, GM for Mobile Business Group, Lenovo Africa, said they were excited to be launching the flagship Moto Z smartphone in South Africa after seeing a gap in the market. “We believe that there is a definite gap in our cellular phone market for smartphones that are truly innovative, and don't merely make small improvements to existing models,” Braum said. “The Moto Z empowers users to choose the capabilities of their smartphones so that they can instantly transform their mobiles into whatever they need, whenever they need it.” At the launch on Thursday night, Braum said the Moto smartphones heralded a new era in the future of mobile devices and Lenovo was at the center of this innovation. “Ultimately, we believe this new Moto Z ecosystem is the future of mobile and will come to define a new era of consumer expectations. The pioneering Moto Mods enable users to reach the maximum potential in a snap,” Braum said. “Whether users are into photography, music, videos or fashion, we have teamed up with experts in each industry to provide our customers with a device that meets all expectations.” Already top computer manufacturer, Braum said Lenovo was aiming to be the third biggest mobile device maker and had climbed to number 202 in the Fortune500 companies The Moto Z will be available at select retailers, including Takealot and Cellucity, from November 1, and at Dion Wired from November 13. It will retail at R12 999. AFRICAN NEWS AGENCY