If lunacy were not becoming our new normal, we would recognise this weeks events as insane, writes Tinyiko Maluleke. Johannesburg - In his Veronika Decides to Die, Paulo Coelho narrates a fable about a powerful wizard who, in order to destroy a powerful kingdom, poured a magic potion of madness into the well from which the inhabitants of the kingdom drew their water. Soon enough, the entire village, including the king and all his queens lost their minds completely. With everybody at the same level of insanity, madness became normal and ubiquitous, and the king and his subjects lived madly ever after. South Africa is beginning to resemble Coelho’s kingdom of madness - with an interminable number of episodes of lunacy routinely breaking out and concurrently playing out all around us. If lunacy were not becoming our new normal, we would recognise this week as one of the most prolific of state-manufactured insanity. For three weeks at least, South African universities have been rocked by #FeesMustFall protests. These protests have been performed to the soundtrack of music made of flying stones landing on human limbs, rubber bullets hitting the mouths of priests, batons striking the backs of students, furious fists massaging the faces of perceived enemies, bitter songs of struggle interspersed with human screams, amid the smoke of smouldering books in flaming libraries. In this time of dance and destruction, to which there appears to be no end in sight, the government seems to have gone on a sabbatical. So that in their greatest hour of need, the students have found themselves without the counsel of those who taught them, in repeat-after-me style, how to recite the mantra of “free quality education, now!” The less said about the disastrous fees imbizo of October 3, the better. The crafted ministerial and presidential speeches as well as the eloquent fees imbizo declaration decorating the shiny website of the Department of Higher Education are part of an elaborate arsenal of denialist strategies meant to help the government sleep deeper and better. Meanwhile, our universities are being transformed into physical rather than intellectual battlegrounds. When National Director for Public Prosecutions Shaun Abrahams stepped forward, like an ominous Harry Potter character, to announce his decision to charge Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan with theft and fraud on Tuesday, we were quickly disabused of any hallucinations as to what is and what is not national priority for this government. Those of us who thought #FeesMustFall, the economy and water scarcity were high on the national agenda were left wide-eyed and open-mouthed. On Wednesday, just one day after charging Gordhan, Abrahams told Parliament that he had the power and the glory to review the charges, if Gordhan asked him nicely. It seems that Gordhan has never been forgiven for taking the bread out of the mouth of, among others, Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Des van Rooyen one weekend in December 2015. My fellow South Africans, this fight has bread (as used in township lingo) written all over it. There is a lot of bread in the National Treasury! Effectively, Gordhan has been checkmated. Either he takes the Zuma route of persisting in public service in spite of a cloud of charges hanging over him, or he will have to do the honourable thing and in the interest of country and self-respect, resign his position. Or else Zuma will mercifully see him out. While South Africans were still scratching their heads regarding the Gordhan charges, Abrahams and his colleagues decided to throw Julius Malema into the ring, late on Thursday. He now stands charged with the contravention of the 1956 Riotous Assemblies Act for utterances made two years ago. A kingdom of madness proceeds by means of a constant proliferation of acts and episodes of lunacy. Consider the shenanigans of what used to be the SABC board and the “wonderful person called Hlaudi” Motsoeneng before whose arrival at the SABC “there was no SABC”, so says Motsoeneng. If you were to look out of the window of your RDP house, on any day, you may see the motorcade of President Jacob Zuma’s impressive entourage of state-funded lawyers, criss-crossing the land in an attempt to find a court that will do what no other court has been able to do over the past 15 years, to make Zuma’s 783 counts of corruption go away. On December 4, 2009, the late Mandy Rossouw discovered a smaller nyana (little) skeleton worth R65 million in Zuma’s private home in Nkandla. A matter of R246m later, after years of subterfuge, filibustering, denial and unbridled tenderising, the nyana skeleton has grown tall, fat and secure in comfort. In May 2016, the skeleton marched into the Constitutional Court. And still, it refuses to go away. Zuma has since paid back the money, but with what can he pay, in order to regain the trust and the respect of South Africans? As if the above menu of ongoing episodes of madness were not enough, by the end of last week the offices of the President and the public protector were sizing each other up for a battle finale in the tradition of West African wrestlers made famous by Chinua Achebe’s Things Fall Apart. At issue was advocate Thuli Madonsela’s intention to publish a preliminary report on allegations of state capture by the Gupta family. The Presidency has threatened to unleash an interdict that will stop the publishing of the preliminary report. And so has Van Rooyen. Cut! Enter Edward, son of Jacob Zuma, carrying an elaborate press statement, duly filed and published on Thursday, in his considerable personal capacity. In it he alleges, among others, that Madonsela wishes to publish this report because “Thuli and her handlers are in panic mode” and that “Pravin is just a crybaby and a serial pretender”. Such cheap shots would make us laugh if they were also not so emblematic of the state of lunacy in which we find ourselves. Since I started this article with a fable about madness, let me end with another, inherited from my maternal grandmother. Long, long ago, there was a madman who lived in a remote village. With his trademark limp, the village madman would walk back and forth, from one end of the village to the other, singing meaningless songs, day and night. One hot summer’s day, during one of his aimless promenades, the madman passed a group of men swimming rowdily in the local lake. He noticed on the banks of the lake, a heap of clothes belonging to the swimmers. Suddenly, he had a brilliant idea, at least he thought it was a brilliant idea. So he acted on it immediately. He gathered the heap of clothes under his smelly armpit. Before the shocked swimmers could react, the madman had sprinted away towards the neighbouring village, taking their clothes with him. The swimmers faced a dilemma. Do they, in their nakedness, immediately exit the lake to pursue the fleeing madman in order to retrieve their clothes? Or do they stay in the water? If they angrily chased after the madman while naked, spectators might not be able to tell the difference between them and the madman. Indeed, some might take pity at the seemingly sane and fully-clothed man being pursued by a bunch of lunatics in the nude. If the swimmers chose to stay in the water, they would have to wait until sunset so that they could discreetly make their way home under the cover of darkness. But there was another problem. The sacred traditions of the village prescribed that any adult found walking naked in the dead of night should immediately be put on trial on accusation of witchcraft - a crime for which the death penalty was applicable. Grandma’s fable always ended with a question to which we could never get the right answer. What do you think the swimmers should do? Having thought about this matter since I was 6 years old, I now urge the swimmers to step out of the lake, in their complete nakedness, to pursue the madman without any further delay. To put an end to the corrosive effects of the insanity into which we are being abducted, we must be prepared to confront the insanity promptly, shamelessly, creatively, fearlessly and, if needs be, nakedly! * Maluleke is a professor at the University of Pretoria. He writes in his personal capacity. Follow him on Twitter @ProfTinyiko ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. The Sunday Independent