 Durban - Former KwaZulu-Natal premier, S’bu Ndebele, has finally called it quits as high commissioner to Australia, according to reports. This is as Ndebele still remains in his post as chancellor of the embattled University of Zululand, while the institution looks for his successor. It also takes place days after the ANC announced it would conduct lifestyle audits for its members deployed in senior government positions and public entities, after receiving a hammering in municipal elections owing to perceived corruption among its ranks. News of his resignation from the diplomatic posting came almost a week after speculation surfaced that he was on his way out, while courts are to decide on a date for the fraud and corruption trial that he and his five co-accused face. They were charged and arrested in December 2015 in connection with an alleged bribe amounting to R10 million - while he was transport minister in 2010 - from Tasima company managing the electronic National Traffic Information System (eNatis) for an illegal extension of its more than R2-billion contract. Although Ndebele was not immediately available for comment, the Business Day newspaper quoted Department of International Relations and Co-operation spokesman, Clayson Monyela, confirming he was no longer an employee of the department, as he had resigned. “As of September 30, the individual in question is no longer an employee of the department. “We are not able to comment on his whereabouts, as he is no longer working in the department,” Monyela was quoted as saying. Stevens Mokgalapa, DA spokesman for international relations and co-operation, said his party welcomed Ndebele’s resignation. “Corruption and fraud have become symptomatic of the current ANC government. This needs to be rooted out if we are to make any progress in serving the needs of ordinary South Africans,” Mokgalapa said. He also said Ndebele’s decision to resign would protect the integrity of the high commission and South Africa’s relations abroad. “We will closely monitor the case to ensure that this continues to happen,” Mokgalapa said. On Wednesday, the University of Zululand confirmed that Ndebele was still the institution’s chancellor, despite the cloud over his head. University spokeswoman, Gcina Nhleko, said: “As far as I know he is still the chancellor. Nominations for a new chancellor are under way, so he is still the chancellor.” Ndebele’s resignation did not go unnoticed on social media, with Twitter users generally welcoming his decision to quit his post. @De_Imperial wrote: “Sbu Ndebele has finally resigned as South Africa’s High Commissioner to Australia. About damn time too.” @zukoZEKA noted Sbu Ndebele “has resigned as high commissioner/ambassador to Australia to face charges”. @NkululekoMantsh wrote that Ndebele had “presided over a dysfunctional DCS (Department of Correctional Services), and now he may be going to serve time there for stealing R10 Million of our TAX.” He also stated that the former premier had resigned “just in time for a pending imprisonment”. But, @L_Nemutanzhela  wondered aloud: “Who is next to follow his footsteps?” @ricoschacherl opined that Ndebele would get redeployed to another government institution or department. But, @mmatona_ntuane raised concern that Ndbele was referred to as an “individual” by Monyela. “I had to read the article twice to grasp the fact that @ClaysonMonyela calls Sbu Ndebele the individual in ??!” Daily News