Although it was recently revealed that the 25-year-old basketball player is expecting a child with his former girlfriend Jordan Craig, a cousin of Kevin Hart's wife Eniko Parrish, in November, Khloe, 32, is serious about her relationship with him. A source told E! News: “Khloe and Tristan are doing really well. They are exclusive. There is a lot of chemistry between the two of them and they are happy together.” And things are so serious that Khloe has sent some of her clothes to his home in Ohio as she plans to spend a lot of time there during basketball season, cheering on the Cleveland Cavaliers player. Tristan previously told Khloe about his impending fatherhood and she isn't letting it get in the way of their relationship. A source told Us Weekly: “Tristan told Khloe about the baby. He’s happy about it. “Khloe's having fun with him right now and just doesn't want any drama.” Meanwhile, Khloe recently revealed her sister Kim Kardashian West is still “not doing that well” after being robbed at gunpoint. The 35-year-old star was involved in a “traumatic” incident when she was tied up, put in a bath and had more than $10 million worth of jewels stolen from her by five masked, armed men in Paris, France recently and Khloe admitted it will “take time” for her sibling to recover. She said: “She's not doing that well. It's incredibly traumatic what happened to her, but our family is super close and great and we'll get through it together. “We do appreciate all of your guys' love and support. It will take time. It was horrible what happened to her.” Khloe admitted the incident has been a “wake-up call” for her social media-friendly family, who often post tweets and share Instagram pictures and Snapchat videos of their whereabouts. She added: “It's just a wake-up call to make a lot of life adjustments. This is a really serious matter. “For Kim I think it's really personal as to when that emotional, like, terror you could move on from. “It's a wake-up call for all of us, but definitely [the focus is] just to make sure our sister is OK. “Like I said, we're a family, we'll do this together. I think it's important to make those adjustments and to pull back a little bit I think is always smart.” Bang Showbiz