Rustenburg - The trial of two men facing 13 counts of crime relating to rivalry over Basotho traditional music was adjourned at the North West High Court sitting in Rustenburg on Thursday.North West judge president Monica Leeuw adjourned the trial against Lebogahang Mathosa and Kauku Seakane to November 7, for the prosecution team to bring more witnesses.The two face charges ranging from murder, attempted murder, possession of unlicensed firearm and ammunition as well as assault. They have pleaded not guilty to all 13 charges which allegedly stem from a deadly musical rivalry over market share.The State alleges that the pair killed Mongedi Khoabise in Robega, outside Rustenburg, on March 8, last year. He was shot while he was talking to his motor vehicle mechanic at his yard.The pair also allegedly killed Lebogang Matlhole in Photsaneng, near Rustenburg, on March 27 last year. He was shot below the armpit at a house in the village.The State further alleged that the two gunned down Mmuso Makhanya at Impala Platinum Mine&#x2019;s Number Six Hostel on May 1. His bullet-riddled body was found lying face down at the hostel.Sergeant Vusimuzi Nkabinde told the court on Wednesday that Makhanya had multiple gunshot wounds to his body and there were 28 cartridges and 15 bullet fragments found around him. He was shot at least 17 times.A witness, Andries Mohumapelo, who survived the shooting, testified on Thursday, that he was shot in the back and the bullet exited his chest. Another bullet was lodged in his right shoulder.He told the court he had visited his brother at the hostel and went out to buy cigarettes when he heard gun shots behind him and tried to hide under a chair. He saw blood and his hand went numb, and he then realised he had been shot. He went to the mine clinic and was taken to a hospital in Rustenburg.Lieutenant Colonel Jacob Kekana from the ballistic forensic laboratory in Pretoria, told the court one of the firearms in the case was stolen in Viljoenskroon in the Free State.The police seized the firearm at a Basotho traditional music festival in Khalamtwana informal settlement near Mooinooi on May 3, last year. The firearm was found hidden in an umbrella inside a minibus taxi.Constable Michael Khutshwayo told the court the police went to the Silver city hall, after they were tipped off about illegal firearm and wanted suspects.The accused were remanded in custody. African News Agency IOL News on Facebook IOL on Twitter