“We invited OPW because it is going to be a perfect wedding and we want the whole world to witness it. “ And so it was. Last Sunday's episode had no drama whatsoever; well apart from a highly picky groom and lots of bling, not forgetting the permanent styling gel. Selaelo Matlemela‘s and Sibusiso Mabuza’s wedding was nothing short of perfection, seeing that everything happened as they wanted. The Atteridgeville couple who are 24 and 34 years respectively met through a mutual friend who never understood why they were both still single. Selaelo was looking for “the right person. Someone who is serious”, as she had experienced an obsessive partner from her previous relationship and therefore decided to take a break while she waited. Sibusiso was still single because he wanted to marry someone from back home in Mpumalanga because he didn’t trust the girls from Pretoria.   The friend-in-question then made a plan for them to meet and they were hooked ever since. Wedding preparations began last year and that guaranteed a smooth sailing day for the couple. Even Jessica was impressed at some point, saying it has never happened that they check through ALL the items on the wish-list while the sun is still up. Impressive! The groom is extremely fussy, according to Selaelo, the type that demands one to dust off dirt from their shoes when they enter his car. And his perfectionism came to the party more than once on screen Sunday. It was noted that he firstly changed the bridesmaid’s dresses simply because he didn’t agree with their chosen colour. Secondly, the bride’s dress had to be replaced because the groom saw the dress and therefore killed the element of surprise. Needless-to-say the dress change was kept under wraps until the big day for the big revelation. Thirdly, the groom threw his toys out of the cot when he couldn’t find his turquois coloured socks. The bridesmaid’s dresses were also turquoise in colour with a touch of silver, and the two matrons of honour wore distinct dresses with a lot of grey and blue. The bride’s new dress had a lot of bling and fitted perfectly on Selaelo’s body, leaving the groom in awe. “I was really surprised. I thought to myself ‘shooo this is my Vitamin K’. I was left speechless because sometimes you cannot fully imagine how beautiful a person can be in their wedding dress until you see them.” He wore an elegant blue suit, and was accompanied by equally stylish groomsmen. After all the wedding formalities were done on the day, the pastor asked the groom to extract the rings out of a glass filled with wine without spilling it, for a special meaning known to him. The obvious solution was to down the wine to get to the rings, which is what Sibusiso did. Modern day wedding tricks!   Oh and the couple really went in with the kiss, the longest kiss I think we’ve ever witnessed on the OPW screens.  “It was our first kiss as Mr and Mrs and we made sure that we make it count,” said Selaelo. Pictures were taken before heading to the reception area, which the couple asked to view first before everyone else could. And they were taken aback. With their navy blue, some more turquoise and white theme, the bride said she was “out of words, it looks very nice”, while all the groom could utter was “Tjo” The fresh flowers were the couple’s favourite element, and the minimal draping allowed for fresh air into the hall on the very warm day. Change of clothes, their traditional regalia looked fresh, modern and fun. And again, what would a wedding be without the wedding dance routine-istep!!! The bride and groom were energetic for this part of the celebration. The overall wedding ambience was amazing and inviting even to us the viewers, people were extremely joyful and joined in the singing and dancing, making this the perfect wedding for the Mabuzas. IOL