Bangkok - British tourists complained on Friday that their holiday plans in Thailand were in disarray after the death of the country’s king led to nightlife being banned for a month. October is normally the beginning of Thailand’s high season with up to three million tourists arriving in a single month – many heading to its bars and notorious red-light districts. But Bangkok’s strip bars and brothels have been ordered to close until further notice – with many fearing alcohol sales could be banned for up to 30 days as the nation mourns. Liam Pearce, 23, a steel erector and welder from Wrexham, North Wales, who is due to fly to Thailand next Thursday for two weeks, said: “It couldn’t have happened at a worse time. “I’ve already booked the flights, paid for hotels and changed money so there’s no chance of changing it. My friends are out there already and they said the only places open at night are pharmacies. That’s hardly going to be much fun.” Chistopher Constantinou, 45, from Ealing, West London, said: “I come here two or three times a year for the adult nightlife around Bangkok and Pattaya. I wouldn’t say my holiday is ruined but I’ll certainly have to take stock of the situation. I’m sill going so hopefully there’s plenty to keep me entertained. If not I’ll make a short detour to the Cambodia or the Philippines for a few nights.” The death of King Bhumibol Adulyadej at the age of 88 has led to a year of mourning being declared and a 30-day moratorium on official events. Foreigners have been urged to swap their bikinis and shorts for “muted, subdued clothing” to avoid offending locals. The Foreign Office warned “access to entertainment, including restaurants, bars, and shopping areas may be restricted”. Pictures from the capital’s normally bustling Khao San Road showed groups of backpackers forced to sit in silence while black and white film tributes to the monarch are played on TV. The passing of king, the world’s longest reigning monarch, saw tens of thousands of Thais take to the streets in tears. Daily Mail