Johannesburg -  African Equity Empowerment Investments  (AEEI) has bought a 57 percent stake in Puleng Technologies , expanding its IT unit, for an undisclosed amount. The listed company says in a statement issued on Tuesday that the deal forms part of its growth strategy, which sees it growing its underlying assets and investments. AEEI, which was recently named as the most empowered company based on the latest Codes of Good Practice by Empowerdex, has investments in food and fishing, technology, health and biotherapeutics, events and tourism. It also holds strategic investments in British Telecoms South Africa, Saab Grintek Defence, Pioneer Foods and Sygnia Limited, some with international partners. It says the deal is effective on October 1. Puleng means 'Rain' or 'Good Fortune' in Tswana. Puleng provides its customers with a client-centric strategy to manage and secure the two most valuable assets an organisation has, namely its 'data' and 'users', says AEEI. AEEI group CEO Khalid Abdulla says the “deal is significant for AEEI [as it adds an] estimated additional R200 million [in] annual revenue to the group, which will complement and grow our technology division with additional technical skills across the group, innovation, world-class support to AEEI's clients and strong returns on investments. “AEEI's acquisition of Puleng falls within the Group's Vision 2020 Vision strategy to deliver value for our stakeholders and is an important breakthrough in our growth plans for our technology division in preparation for its planned listing within the next three to five years. The key to the success of our Vision 2020 Vision strategy is our ability to implement and add long-term value in the businesses that we invest in.” It is anticipated that AEEI's investment into Puleng Technologies will have a pay-back period of three to four years. This 'payback' excludes the anticipated exponential capital appreciation expected from this investment. AEEI's financial year-end results to August 31 will be presented to the market on October 26. IOL Independent Media and AEEI are subsidiaries of Sekunjalo Investment Holdings.