Derek Watts (Carte Blanche): “When Carte Blanche started, M-Net had rented offices in Randburg and we used a hired studio in Balfour Park. The show didn’t even have a name until close to the broadcast day – there was a competition and a fellow from Cape Town bagged the prize. Meaning “anything goes” in French helped to inspire the style of the show. “I was fresh out of the SABC Top Sport studio and was very nervous about presenting with news anchor Ruda Landman who had a reputation for being a tad stern. But she turned out to be an amazing colleague for the next 19 years and we are good friends to this day. “For the first decade we ran alongside the best stories from the most famous investigative program in the world – CBS 60 Minutes. So we had to lift our game rapidly. And we also had to adapt to a life of last-minute travel. “And back at home there was more serious reporting to be done as we traversed from apartheid to democracy with tragedies like the Boipatong massacre and the assassination of Chris Hani along the way. “With the outstanding and determined George Mazarakis captaining the ship, we developed a hard, probing, investigative nose.  But always telling personal stories of hope and despair, of calamity and recovery. Our rapport with our viewers grew and we felt the responsibility of keeping them informed and entertained every week.  A tough job that is carried out by our committed and undaunted team of story editors, researchers and producers. “And all with the strong backing of M-Net who were willing to push the envelope and make sure we had a top legal team to advise us on sensitive and political issues. We have been a very small cog in the mix of M-Net and it has been uplifting to witness the channel grow with so many amazing movies and stunning homegrown shows over the years. All achieved with the collective energy of so many passionate and creative people over the decades. “Reaching 28 years of broadcasting has been an achievement we are all proud of.  Chalking up 30 years of brilliant broadcasting is a magic milestone for M-Net. Thanks for taking us on that marvellous journey.”  Devi Sankaree Govender (Carte Blanche): “We will continue to innovate, to bring you entertainment like you’ve never seen before. We will continue to ask the questions other people don’t ask. We will continue to bring you magic, because that’s what we do. I remember watching Derek and Ruda and thinking, ‘I want to do that’.”  ProVerb (Idols presenter turned producer): “M-Net has potentially revolutionised the industry from an empowerment point of view and an entertainment, quality and output point of view. M-Net doesn’t just seek to create amazing content, but to give back and empower as many as they can.”  Unathi Msengana (Idols judge): “I truly get to experience magic 10 months of my year, because of Idols.”  Ashley Hayden (Previous continuity presenter and Survivor 3 runner-up): “At the time we thought this was just as good as it could get.”  Bobby van Jaarsveld ( The Voice SA coach): “Being on The Voice was definitely one of the biggest things that happened to me in my life.”  George Mazarakis (Director of Combined Artistic Productions): “I don’t think any of us anticipated that M-Net would turn into DStv and the whole MultiChoice success story. When you had an idea and you brought it to M-Net, it was always about what the possibilities were.” Connie Ferguson (The Wild): “M-Net gave us the opportunity to grow beyond us being actors.”  Lalla Hirayama (Lallaland): “I still pinch myself. I do. I get paid to do this? I should be paying M-Net.”  Brümilda van Rensburg (actress, Egoli): “M-Net has been a life-changing experience for me. I discovered a city of gold, realised a life-long dream, and got the chance to pursue my passion in conjunction with a channel that has always dedicated its time, effort and creativity to bring magic to its viewers. M-Net, in 30 years you have changed the landscape of viewing pleasure, became the frontrunner in home entertainment and taken armchair escapism to a whole new level. Thank you for your tireless input in changing perspectives, and providing excitement and joy – even beyond the confines of the small screen. Happy birthday, and may you always shine brightly in and under the African sky.”