CostSaver is the perfect holiday for South African travellers,” says Theresa Szejwallo, managing director for The Travel Corporation, “providing consistent quality at the best value that is truly budget friendly. It's a winning formula.” Priced from as little as R1 355 per day travellers can escape to Europe or the newest destinations in the CostSaver range, the United States, Canada and Mexico, with included hand-picked accommodation, perfectly planned itineraries that offer the must-see sights, airport transfers and the services of a quality-assured Trafalgar-trained Travel Director. “A CostSaver holiday is hassle-free and because of its flexible nature, travellers are able to tailor their experience to fit their personal choices,” says Theresa. Guests start every day with an included breakfast and enjoy up to half their dinners as well as sightseeing tours in all the major cities. Travellers literally cannot get the same quality for a better price. Europe sees the introduction of four new trips for CostSaver travellers that will feature France, Sicily, Poland and Greece. Highlights of Sicily, priced from R2 045 per day, visits Rome, Naples, Taormina, Mt Etna, Agrigento, Palermo, Mondello and Monreale while the Jewels of France visits Paris, the D-Day landing beaches, the Loire Valley and more. Due to the immense popularity of the European CostSaver holidays, the 2017 programme will see the introduction of 14 different trips in Mexico, the USA and Canada. From the golden beaches of California, to the wild frontiers of Canada and the incredible scenery of Mexico the holiday of a lifetime awaits. Amongst the 14 tours new North American tours, guests have the chance to explore some of Mexico's most memorable treasures on the 8-day Mexico's Great Copper Canyon priced from R2 688 per day, take in some of Canada's most scenic views on the 10-day Wonders of the Canadian Rockies journey through Lake Louise, Jasper, Victoria and Vancouver priced from R2095 per day, explore Canada from East to West on a 19-day journey highlights of which include the Niagara falls, Toronto, Quebec, Montreal and Vancouver from R1 890 per day, explore the Landscapes of Eastern Canada and USA priced from R2 014 per day. Adapted from a press release for IOL  * For more information on CostSaver visit costsaver.trafalgar.com or call (011) 280 8450.