Liberating, eye opening and above all fun, road trips are what travelling is all about and there has never been a better time to embark on the adventure of a lifetime. With the ultimate road trip movie, Thelma & Louise, celebrating its 25th anniversary and Route 66 turning 90 this year The Travel Corporation has rounded up the top five American road trips to take in 2016. Forget checking the fuel tank, adjusting to right hand driving or running into any of the criminal activity Thelma and Louise encountered as our expert drivers and guides lead the way.  Trafalgar's Route 66 Nicknamed the nation's 'mother road', Route 66 is the only place to start when it comes to all-American road trips. Not just a highway, this road running from Illinois to California is an icon in itself and this year it will be turning 90. Trafalgar offers a 15 day Route 66 guided holiday where a different aspect of American culture is revealed around every turn as you journey from Chicago to Los Angeles. Highlights along the way include a barbecue contest with a team of master BBQ chefs in St Louis followed by a Be My Guest dinner hot off the grill, the chance to see the amazing Grand Canyon and a visit to the traditional land of the Navajo people. Priced from R48 950 per person twin share.  A photo posted by Ville Mäkinen (@mrwilly667) on Oct 6, 2016 at 5:34pm PDT   Insight Vacations Elegance of the East Coast America's east coast has all the ingredients for the perfect road trip. From the mega cities of New York and Washington to the beautiful dune backed beaches of Connecticut and the historic hub of Boston, America's heritage and natural splendour is distinctly visible. Insight Vacation's 8 day tour is a road trip with a luxurious twist where you'll see the sights of the Big Apple, tour Harvard with a University scholar, take a VIP food tour of Philadelphia and marvel at the mansions of Ocean Drive in Newport. Priced from 41 200 per person twin share.  A photo posted by Exploring_The_Planet (@the_amazing_beautiful_earth) on Oct 6, 2016 at 7:20pm PDT   Trafalgar's Adventures of the Lone Star State A road trip across the heart of Texas, this exciting exploration in one of the largest states is steeped in old-West history, basking in the courageous spirit of the pioneers. This 10 day trip begins in Dallas and takes in Waco, Austin, San Antonio, Houston and Fort Worth. Enjoy true Texan hospitality at a typical barbecue feast and learn how to dance the Texas Two-Step and the Cotton-Eyed Joe on an authentic Texas Ranch. Priced from R43 200 per person sharing.  A photo posted by @cacacacandice on Oct 7, 2016 at 4:04am PDT   Luxury Gold's The Sumptuous Soul of America The senses are guaranteed to be delighted on this 14 day luxurious road trip where the rhythms and flavours of America are brought to life. Starting off on Route 66 from Chicago, this journey continues south through the American Heartland and explores the musical history of Nashville, the birthplace of the King of rock and roll in Memphis, the colonial charm of Natchez and the effervescent city of New Orleans. There are plenty of highlights to enjoy along the way including the chance to make the perfect mint julep, taking part in a Creole cookery class and visiting the Country Music Hall of Fame. Priced from R86 800 per person twin share.  A photo posted by Alexa Simpson (@alexasimpson) on Oct 4, 2016 at 3:59pm PDT   Contiki's Grand Northern A road trip of ever changing landscapes taking in 20 states and two Canadian provinces, get ready to go local. Start in the Big Apple before it's all about Canada, America's Great Lakes & Chicago en route to the American West. Chill at 4 National Parks before heading to Las Vegas and ending your journey in Los Angeles.  Walk the Historic Freedom Trail in Boston, eat deep dish pizza in Chicago, visit the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame and cruise the Niagara Falls. The Grand Northern is priced from R53 298 per person sharing.  A photo posted by Instagramers Boston (@igersboston) on Oct 6, 2016 at 4:49pm PDT  Adapted from a press release for IOL * Call The Travel Corporation on (011) 280 8440 to book one of these superb Road Tripping getaways and ask about the Early Payment Discounts to see if you qualify.