The 20-year-old beauty queen from Iceland was told by the organizers that she is too fat to win. A photo posted by Arna r J贸nsd贸ttir (@arnayr) on Sep 13, 2016 at 2:14am PDT Proud of being a strong woman @jeneilwilliams  #nike #justdoit #niketraining A photo posted by Arna r J贸nsd贸ttir (@arnayr) on Oct 26, 2016 at 2:47pm PDT J贸nsd贸ttir flew all the way to Las Vegas to take part in global pageant, Miss Grand International. Everything was going fine until Sunday when she made a Facebook announcement that she is quitting the pageant, because she was told she is 'too fat.' My goodbye letter锔 A photo posted by Arna r J贸nsd贸ttir (@arnayr) on Oct 24, 2016 at 3:42pm PDT On Monday, she also shared the letter on Instagram which was addressed to Nawat Itsaragrisil, one of the pageant's presidents. The incident started a world-wide debate about beauty pageant standards. A woman who walks in purpose doesn't have to chase people or opportunities. Her light causes people and opportunities to pursue her. A photo posted by Arna r J贸nsd贸ttir (@arnayr) on Oct 23, 2016 at 5:27am PDT I hope you'll all have a great day 糕锔 A photo posted by Arna r J贸nsd贸ttir (@arnayr) on Sep 27, 2016 at 6:48am PDT Can't believe there's almost two months since I won Miss Em !  A photo posted by Arna r J贸nsd贸ttir (@arnayr) on Aug 2, 2016 at 6:11am PDT Statement given by Mr Nawat Itsaragrisil, President of Miss Grand International Organization: "Since the start of the pageant she is one of the delegate who shown herself to be interesting and great personality and all my staffs love to work with her and she made great impression to the team. It is common that the contestants and staffs they exchange the opinion and asked for comments of how to improve their performance because this is beauty pageant and everyone wants to improve their chance in order to win the title. "Same like Miss Grand Iceland 2016, she asked some questions and suggestions from our staffs which theyve replied according to what they think, she may be a little bit fat and they recommended her, in good way, to try to lose some weight in order to improve her chance to win. This is normal process for the three weeks during the pageant, everyone should show their improvement. Similarly the staffs give the same advice for others who asked them what should they do to improve in order to win which each of them would get different advice and no one have any problems and are trying their own way to improve. "There was an incident that she shows her photos from her previous international pageant to me which she looks slimmer and more beautiful which I do not understand the purpose as what we are looking in the competition is the present not what she used to look like.Finally she posted one of her personal Snapchat on her own words in her own language and her own understanding. After that we had a chat with her together with my Vice President Miss Teresa Chaivisut she said what the social media feedback was not what she actually said and we make understanding which she released another Snapchat to clarify and it is all seems fine. Next day I was reported that she moved out since last night without informing anyone, her roommate told us that she left a letter which addressed to me at the reception which she showed to the media. One of our conditions of the pageant for security reasons we do not allow anyone to leave the hotel without our acknowledgement, she seems to have her own imagination and do whatever she pleased without obeying any rules and regulations which she read and signed accepting before entering the pageant. What are your thoughts?