The 25-year-old rapper - who was banned from Twitter over her racial outbursts and controversial comments  - has realised she needs to stop being a "crazy girl" after her mum gave her a wake up call following her clash with Zayn Malik earlier this year. Speaking to London's Evening Standard newspaper, she explained: "My mother has never reprimanded me but she reprimanded me after the thing with Zayn happened. She was like, 'Azealia, you hurt a lot of people'. I was like, 'f**k'. " The brunette star came under fire in May this year when she accused the former One Direction star of "stealing" her ideas because of apparent similarities between her music videos and the stills in his 'Like I Would', which he dropped in March. She said at the time: "Damn Zayn be moodboarding the f*** out of me (sic)" When the 23-year-old singer challenged her, Azealia seemingly lost her temper and said: "U.S.A IS ABOUT TO TEACH YOU WHO NOT TO F--K WITH!! (sic)" She then referred to Zayn - who is British-Pakistani - as a "sand n*****r" and a "curry-scented bitch," which ultimately led to her being banned from Twitter. She said: "It finally reconciled these two conflicting thoughts I had about being real and being professional. "I realised you're not keeping it real by being a crazy girl. You don't lose anything by keeping your mouth shut. So maybe it's time to stop being a crazy girl. You know sometimes you get carried away when you're joking. There's this crude, ignorant, mixed-up New York City humour where people call each other all kinds of f**ked-up s**t. I use the N-word all the time. I was being stupid, not trying to be hurtful." However, it seems the 'Gimme A Chance' hitmaker hasn't learnt from her mistakes as she's landed herself in hot water once again after she was thrown out of Russell Crowe's hotel suite when she allegedly threatened to "stab" his guests in the throat. The incident, which took place over the weekend, reportedly unravelled when Azealia mocked the 52-year-old actor's music selection and called him a "boring white" man. A female friend then jumped to their host's defence and suggested the rapper be quiet, prompting an astonishing tirade from the hot-headed rapper. She allegedly said: "You would love it if I broke my glass, stabbed you guys in the throat, and blood would squirt everywhere like some real Tarantino s**t." She is also reported to have used the n-word a number of times, but her host remained "surprisingly calm". When Azealia reached for her glass and raised it as if she were about to throw it, the 'Gladiator' star grabbed her in a bear hug and carried her out of the suite, before carrying hotel security to remove her from the grounds. Though four guests have given statements claiming Azealia was behaving "erratically" and confirming she was the one using racist terms, she took to her Facebook account to accuse Russell of choking her and spitting on her. In a now-deleted post, she wrote: "To recap my night, I went to a party at Russell Crowe's suite, at which he called me a n****r, choked me, threw me out and spat at me. "Last night was one of the hardest nights of sleep I've had in a long time. "The men in the room allowed it to happen. I feel terrible today." Another deleted post read: "Just feel so low and mishandled and alone and f*****g depressed right now. I wish I had someone to beat him up for me." Bang Showbiz