These recognised names will be able to shop for their favourite products that much more easily. Not only does it supplement the extensive range of existing Woolworths homeware products, but the launch of these well-loved labels adds even more variety to Woolworths' offering of quality and reliable design. SCANPAN Manufactured in Denmark, Scanpan comprises a range of cookware that is stylish, practical and durable. The offering consists of a selection of professional chefs knives (including a 10-piece knife block), and three choices of cookware-Maître D', Classic, and CTX. Maître D' combines copper and stainless steel for even heat distribution, and stainless steel handles stay cooler for longer, so it's easy to grip while in use. Of course, the range is also gorgeous, so you can take it straight from the stovetop to the table.  A 10-piece knife block set by Scanpan. Credit: Supplied  Cookware that is stylish, practical and durable. Credit: Supplied  READ: The health benefits of gardening JOSEPH JOSEPH Created in 2003 by twin brothers Anthony and Richard Joseph, the Joseph Joseph kitchenware range is synonymous with contemporary and functional design-particularly with a bold use of colour. Their unique ability to marry form and function has earned the brand global recognition for their multi-award-winning designs. At Woolworths you will find a wide selection of some of their best-selling products in a fresh new colour-way called Opal, including perennial favourites, such as the Index™ chopping boards and a series of Nest™ kitchen utensils in bright pastel shades of blue-greens. You'll also find the Elevate™ baking set; a series of seriously neat and tidy waste and recycling Totem solutions and their liners, and a host of other ergonomically designed kitchen gadgets and utensils.  Best-selling products in a fresh new colour-way called Opal. Credit: Supplied  Clever and compact, with an easy-twist handle, pocket-sized can opener. Credit: Supplied LAGUIOLE Modelled on traditional French Country knives, originally made by shepherds that lived and farmed in the central Aubrac region of France, Laguiole has become a brand leader in fashionable cutlery, and offers a wide choice of beautifully crafted knives and cutlery sets. At Woolworths you'll find all manner of sets, including cheese knives, carving sets, corkscrew and bottle openers, bread knives or a full set of knives, forks and spoons. Laguiole's logo is a bee after the Napoleonic and French mark for 'savoir faire' and you'll usually find this decoratively positioned on the handle. Each piece of Laguiole Dubost cutlery is made with 25 manual production stages, including hand polishing, and each set comes with a certificate of authenticity.  Modelled on traditional French Country knives. Credit: Supplied READ: Have one meter of space? You can have a vertical garden  Each piece of Laguiole Dubost cutlery is made with 25 manual production stages. Credit: Supplied RIEDEL Riedel, the wine glass company, was established in 1756 and is a family owned and operated business that has been producing glass in Europe for 260 years. Recognised worldwide for designing and manufacturing the highest quality varietal-specific glassware and mouth-blown decanters, the ranges are said to enhance the aroma and flavour of wines and spirits. All Riedel glassware is dishwasher safe, and will retain its beautiful sparkle after years of use. Woolworths will be stocking Riedel decanters, and a selection of glassware for a variety of different wines.  Riedel mouth-blown wine decanter. Credit: Supplied  All Riedel glassware is dishwasher safe, and will retain its beautiful sparkle after years of use. Credit: Supplied Note: Look out for all of these exciting products, available in stores country wide and online at www.woolworths.co.za, from October 2016