LONDON: Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola has told his players not to lose faith in the high-risk, high-reward style of football he has introduced at the Etihad despite the club’s recent winless run, Kevin De Bruyne has said. City started the season by winning their first 10 games in all competitions but the momentum has stalled in recent weeks, and Sunday’s 1-1 draw with Southampton marked their fifth straight game without a victory. “He just told us to believe,” De Bruyne, who will miss tonight's League Cup fourth-round game against rivals Manchester United after suffering a knock to the calf, told the Daily Mail. “He doesn’t want us to have doubts in the way that we are playing. He wanted to make sure that we know the way we are playing now is the good way. That was the message. "There are a lot of risks in how we play, we know that. I know this is not a very patient world, but we are trying something very new.” City have seen their lead at the top of the Premier League evaporate and are ahead of Arsenal and Liverpool only on goal difference. They also trail Barcelona by five points in their Champions League group after three games. Guardiola has made some big decisions since joining City in July, sending Joe Hart out on loan and dropping Sergio Aguero for key games. De Bruyne said the Spaniard has made it clear there was no place at the club for players who cannot adjust. “You just need to adapt otherwise you won’t fit in. And if you don’t fit in, then you will have to go somewhere else,” he added. City face United tonight before travelling to face West Bromwich Albion in the league three days later. Guardiola said he will ring the changes at Old Trafford: "We are going to rotate. Some are going to play. I need to see the players today in training and after we will decide the team. We didn't win in five – young players need to play in a good environment. You have to protect them." Meanwhile, City’s injury-plagued captain Vincent Kompany is hoping to steer clear of the treatment table from now on by paying more attention to medical advice. The 30-year-old defender returned from his latest spell on the sidelines to make his first league start since April in Sunday’s draw with the Saints. “I’ve been out for six months. I’ve had to make one commitment to the medical staff, which was that I’d be honest towards them with my feelings, and that I would listen to them when they made a decision,” he said. “I told them how I felt the day before the game and they made the decision for me. I wanted to play, of course, that wasn’t even in doubt, but I’ve just made this commitment to listen to them a little bit more.” – Reuters