Kim Kardashian West is "not doing so good" after being tied up and robbed at gunpoint on Monday (03.10.16). The 35-year-old reality TV star's best friend Jonathan Cheban has given an update on his pal after she endured a horrific ordeal in Paris, France, when five armed, masked men stormed into her apartment, tied her up with plastic handcuffs, and duct tape, and stole more than $10 million worth of jewellery. READ: Kendall Jenner ignores cyberbullies Details A photo posted by Kim Kardashian West (@kimkardashian) on Oct 2, 2016 at 10:27am PDT Speaking to MailOnline outside Kim's New York apartment, he said: "She's not doing so good." Jonathan arrived at Kim's flat clutching what appeared to be a gift bag for the 'Keeping Up With the Kardashians' star, who was left "hysterical" after the shocking incident took place in the French capital city. Kim's former bodyguard Steve Stanulis claims the incident, in which the gang were dressed as policemen, was an "inside job", and admits he wasn't too surprised because she is "very lax" about security. Speaking to Australian radio station KIIS 1065, he said: "It was totally an inside job guys, the way the whole thing it unfolded it was too clean. "When I say inside job, it's either somebody from their camp or somebody from the hotel. "They got into a room when the only security guard was out, and they knew where the jewellery was. "It was the perfect opportunity on every level." Discussing her and husband Kanye West's relaxed views on security, he added: "I'd be waiting for Kanye to come out a restaurant. READ: Kim ‘feared rape’ when robbers grabbed her ankles "He'd come out with a couple of buddies, there wouldn't be room for me in the car so he'd tell me to get a taxi. "When you follow them in New York he likes you 10 paces behind. If somebody tackles you, I'm not going to get there to stop it." However, officers suspect the raid was carried out by a "sophisticated international criminal organisation". A source said: "We know the licence plate of one of the vehicles used, a Fiat 500, and a photograph of one of the suspects. They both appear to be French and highly professional. 💎💎💎 A photo posted by Kim Kardashian West (@kimkardashian) on Sep 29, 2016 at 12:40pm PDT  "But this kind of robbery could only have been carried out by a sophisticated international criminal organisation. "It would have to be if they had any hope of re-classify the stolen jewels and sell them again." Kim's security guard Pascal Duvier has come under fire because he was out with her sisters Kendall Jenner and Kourtney Kardashian at the time of the incident, but he has vowed to track down the robbers.