From sequins, quirky t-shirts to breezy dresses and playful jumpsuits. We have summarised the key Spring/Summer 2016 fashion trends and palettes for you to use as your style guide. We have also included two retailers that are trending right now for affordable and stylish shopping. The floral trend is forever evolving and continues to be one of the favourites for the hot summer months. Floral printed pants, jumpsuits and dresses in bright colours are perfect for a playful and romantic look.  Stylist and lifestyle blogger, Saarahjasmin Nwajei wears a dress by Genesis Style paired with accessories from Fifth Avenue Collection. Credit: Tracey Adams The jumpsuit trend is here to stay. This one-step outfit seamlessly works for the office and for evening cocktails depending on the style and length.  Jane Folodi wears a short and sleeveless printed jumpsuit from H&M South Africa. Credit: Tracey Adams The twinning trend (the bearing of twins) or wearing matchy-matchy ensembles are popular with besties, mothers and daughters and even lovers. Celebrities such as Beyoncé and her daughter Blue Ivy are leading the way turning up  at events head-to-toe identically clothed. READ: Accessories - size matters, and it's small There's a fine line between cute and corny when it comes to this trend, make sure your outfits are not too busy with too much colour or accessories but keep it to the minimal with solid colours and simple accessories.  Jane Folodi and Nontando Mposo are twinning in baby pink dresses from H&M South Africa and platform shoes from Dolce Vita Shoes. Credit: Tracey Adams The sequins trend - sparkly and colourful sequins decorating skirts, dresses and even pants are hot right now. For those who are not afraid to stand-out, match your sequins to a basic, classic or generally very easy piece of clothing with quirky t-shirts and clashing textures such as denim or leather.  Jane Folodi is wearing a sequins skirt from H&M South Africa, the t-shirt, cap and gold metallic sneakers are from Mr Price. Credit: Tracey Adams Dunns Clothing Affordable fashion retailer Dunns recently launched their S/S16 pan-african inspired and locally designed capsule range named ‘Who We Are' (#WHOWEARE). Inspired by the country and continent's rich melting pot of cultures. The collection features distinctive designs; some indigenous to the continent such as the ankara print trend, others created specially for this collection and all reflecting the diversity of African heritage.  The Who We Are collection will be available at Dunns stores throughout South Africa. Credit: Supplied For more information or to locate your nearest store click here Supré Australian-born youth fashion brand, Supré opened it's first South African store in Cavendish Square in Cape Town last week. This will be followed by two others in Centurion Mall in Pretoria this month and Menlyn Park Shopping Centre in Johannesburg in November. The brand's must-have Luxe collection, which embodies the ritual of getting ready with the girls includes this season pastel colours trend of - powder pinks, mints. Styles of whites choker crops, cute shorts, criss-cross camis and major midis. Follow Supré on social media platforms below: Instagram @supre_instagram Snapchat @supresnap READ: 7 Sexy swimsuits for Summer Additional details: Hair by Isis Hair Africa Make-up by Ederees Abrahams