Johannesburg - It was supposed to be a once-in-a lifetime holiday in Mauritius for Mike Vosloo and his family. But less than 24 hours after arriving on the tropical island, the Springs dad lost his daughter and his wife following a vicious altercation between the two. His wife Marietjie appeared in a Mauritian court this week charged with manslaughter for causing the death of her 17-year-old step-daughter Mundolene. In a Facebook post, a grieving Mike revealed what unfolded at the Riu Hotel in Le Morne on Wednesday where the family was staying. “I am devastated and my world has been torn apart. I haven’t slept and I cry all the time. I can’t believe my beautiful child is gone. I miss her. My children were so excited for the trip.” Mike wrote that his wife Marietjie had been “moaning” at Mundolene since they arrived at the 4-star hotel on Tuesday. “I told Mundolene to be quiet and to not talk back. I was trying to prevent a fight.” “She did as I said and avoided conflict. My two sons and I told Marietjie countless times to leave Mundolene alone. “Then they argued at the swimming pool and Marietjie threw a glass at Mundolene in front of other guests.” “Marietjie then went to the room, while Mundolene and my son, Miguele, stayed behind. Later Marietjie  shouted at our son, Marnuwico, and told him he couldn’t swim any more and to go to the room with her.” Mike then went to their room a few minutes later and urged his wife to stop causing a scene. “I told her if she didn’t stop I was going to put a stop to the holiday and we were going to go home. She was so angry and stormed out of the room.” A few minutes later Miguele, came rushing to the room for help. “I was told that Marietjie had hit Mundolene in the face and she had collapsed on the floor. “When I arrived, the resort doctor was already busy with Mundolene. They took her to a medical centre, where they worked on her for 30 minutes but she died.” Now Mike’s wife is locked up in a Mauritian jail and his daughter’s body lies in a morgue as police continue their investigation into her death. A post-mortem was conducted on Thursday afternoon. According to the doctors, Mundolene had died of a subarachnoid hemorrhage. Marietjie, who has been a pharmacist for 34 years, appeared in the Bambous District Court and told police that she had slapped the “bad-tempered” teenager, who was later found on the floor. Police say it is too early to say when the remaining family members would be allowed to return to South Africa. “This will depend on the inquiry officers. Of course, anybody who witnessed what happened at the hotel  their statement and their testimony is crucial ” Mauritius police spokesperson Inspector Shiva Coothen told the media on Friday . Coothen added that one of the teen’s siblings had seen the altercation and could be a key witness when police recreate the crime scene. Mundolene’s aunt Yolande Smuts told YOU magazine on Friday that the Hugenote Hoërskool pupil’s family at home were still in the dark about what happened. “We have no clue what’s going on! It’s terrible not to know,” she said. Mundolene’s biological mother and stepfather are believed to have travelled to the holiday island on Friday. Messages of condolence have been pouring in on social media for Mundolene. Her boyfriend Tyron Bothma from Joburg wrote on Facebook: “I’m going to miss you so much. But now you’re with Jesus. I’m so thankful for the time we had together.” The principal of  the Hoërskool Hugenote, Frans Styger, also paid tribute to Mundolene. “She was a neat and spontaneous girl. (Her death) is a loss to the school, our deepest condolences to her parents and brothers.” Saturday Star