Cape Town - Friday night may be the last episode of popular Afrikaans soapie 7de Laan, as production and script writing staff attached to Danie Odendaal Productions have not been paid. This means the show might not play on SABC2 in the coming months. The SABC has, however, denied there is a wage dispute between the staff and the public broadcaster. In an internal memo sent to staff, line manager and spokeswoman, Frances Maposa outlined that the period during which salaries were to be paid was drawing closer, “with no contract being in place”. Maposa said without a contract, the company was unable to invoice the SABC and, in turn, unable to receive payment. “This ripple effects of this sees no end,” she wrote. A draft script contract with notes was sent to the SABC on October 3. The production company had still not received the revised contract to sign and it was still, the memo indicated. " A draft contract for production was also forwarded on October 7. That contract was also not revised and sent back to Danie Odendaal Productions, the makers of the show, to be signed. The memo said both contracts were still with "Legal", presumably the corporation's legal department. “The SABC in its capacity is aware of the situation and the position we are in and they are also doing their utmost best in getting these contracts out and finalised. “They have also made special payment arrangements to process the payment as soon as the contracts are signed,” the memo read. She advised staff to make alternative arrangements because it was unclear when new two-year contracts would be signed, or “more importantly” when staff would receive their first payment. SABC spokesman Kaizer Kganyago denied a wage dispute between the public broadcaster and the production company was under way. “In addition, the SABC does not discuss or negotiate contractual issues in the public domain or through the media and therefore will not comment further,” said Kganyago. Fans of the show took to social media calling for the staff’s contracts to be renewed and prompting the hashtag #Save7deLaan. Tyrone Prins even appealed to Western Cape Premier Helen Zille to save the show. “Can you help #7deLaan to get contracts from SABC @helenzille we might not watch it on Monday, just tweet something #Save7deLaan”. Orian tweeted: “The SABC never loved #7delaan though. I’m so over this country and the double standards.”  gadeeja.abbas@inl.co.za  Cape Argus