We often get stuck when choosing men’s gifts and wonder: What do we buy? Will will they like it? Are we spending too much money? Will this person like it? Do they like the brand? Socks, a simple outdoor lamp and caps might generally be the  go to items, however there’s and a wide range of other adventure equipment that might be of interest for men. READ: Durbanville Hills Bubbles & Blanc Festival 2016 We have compiled a list of 8 products that are under R500 and will make any outdoor enthusiast jump for joy. K-Way Dart 1.5L Hydration Pack - R399  When you’re hiking hydration is vital. Most of the time you have to shuffle through your backpack to find your water bottle. With a hydration pack you have water at your fingertips. The K-Way Dart 1.5L Hydration Pack is perfect for travellers, trail runners and mountain-bikers. On the design side it has an easy fit, well-ventilated, mesh back and  quick-flick buckles. LED Lenser L7 Torch - R399  A torch is a must, especially on long trails where you camp out during the night. The LED Lenser L7 Torch is lightweight, and equipped with an advanced focus lens system.  It also has a battery life of 42 hours and a 225m beam range. LED Lenser SE03 Headlamp - R450  If you have ever been in a cave or trekked through the wilderness at night you know how important a headlamp is. The LED Lenser SE03 headlamp has 3 globes that cover 40m. Some of the extra features include a tiltable head,  red light mode, advanced focus lens systems and a lock function. Cuddlebug - Tube  R250  We’ve all been on a long journey, and the most uncomfortable part when you’re travelling long distances can be trying to have quick nap.  The Cuddlebug is perfect for taking a nap outdoors or if you just want to stare at the stars. K-Way Camp Towel Large R399  Waiting for a towel to dry can be annoying. This is where the K-Way towel comes in. This towel is six times lighter than a normal towel, and it dries 4 times faster. The polyester and polyamide blend insures makes this the perfect micro-fibre towel for camping or everyday use. READ: Summer cocktail recipes with a sparkly twist Nite-Ize Curvyman R75  Keeping your earphones untangled is a constant struggle. The Curvyman keeps your precious earphones at bay. With it’s lightweight design and S-binder attachment you can clip it to your backpack, keys or zipper pull. Keygear Mini Flask R75  What would a camping trip be without a nip of whisky or brandy on a chilly night?  This 29ml mini  flask will fit perfectly in your purse or  pocket. Victorinox Camper 13 Function R399  A Swiss Army Knife is something that everyone should have. Some of the many features that are included with the Victorinox Camper is a bottle opener, awl, can opener, wood/metal file, medium screwdriver, small screwdriver, wire stripper, toothpick, tweezers & corkscrew. All gifts from Cape Union Mart