Melissa Etheridge has hit out at Angelina Jolie in a radio interview while commenting on one-time friend Brad Pitt's divorce. The singer, who lost touch with Brad during his relationship with Angelina, said: “I really hope that he reaches back out,” adding, “there are a lot of us who haven’t seen him in 10 years, it was hard then. We all lost a friend.” The 55-year-old singer was once close friends with the 'Moneyball' actor, and even performed at his wedding to Jennifer Aniston in 2000. However the friendship crumbled after Brad got involved with Angelina, and Etheridge blasted Jolie, who’s been accused of conducting a smear campaign against Brad. “It breaks my heart that anyone would take something as personal as your marriage and your relationship and your rights to your children and do it as purposefully as I see it’s being done,” she said to Andy Cohen on the SiriusXM radio show. Melissa added that she has personal experience of Jolie’s “nasty” behaviour, when the 'By The Sea' star and Billy Bob Thornton entered into a relationship while Thornton was engaged to actress Laura Derne. “I was around when Angelina was not doing nice things with Billy Bob to Laura Dern. I went through that on a personal level, and then to know the side of Jennifer and Brad … “I helped Laura move out of her house with Billy Bob - I like, broke into their home to get their stuff out because it was so nasty,” she revealed.   Earlier this year, Etheridge revealed that her bond with Pitt was once so strong that she considered using him as a sperm donor when she and then-partner Julie Cypher wanted to have children. Melissa said: "Well actually, [Brad] was such a good friend of mine. And we did consider it. "And yet, I looked and I saw how badly he wanted children and I thought, 'I don't want to share this with someone who really, badly wants children because my children don't need another parent - they have two.' " Instead of Brad the former couple's children Bailey, 18, and Beckett, 17, were fathered by musician David Crosby and Melissa thinks he was the right choice. She said: "It's one of the reasons why David Crosby and his wife are so perfect - because they (already) had children. They were looking to do this as a gift. And my children are lovely and gorgeous anyway." But Melissa - who is now married to Linda Wallem - admitted her sons joke they wish the Hollywood hunk was their real dad. Speaking to Angela Bishop on 'Studio 10', she said: "Of course, my teenagers now are like, 'I could have had Brad Pitt [as my dad]!' My son said, 'I could've been amazingly handsome!' "  IOL and Bang Showbiz