Conversations around data costs have sprung up incessantly in recent weeks. That dreadful reminder from your network service provider telling you that you have 4.5MB of data remaining, within less than a month of buying data, begs the question: Is South Africa paying exorbitant margins for data? In a fiery discussion at #Backchat on data costs, the Deputy Minister in the Presidency, Buti Manamela spoke about how the issue of data costs is one that has reached a tipping point. "There were very critical issues of policy particularly that are linked with the white paper and I think government will need to take those up. We also have to look at how these issues fit into government's war-room and broadband. I think what we've all essentially agreed on is that the question of data costs falling or being reduced is very urgent. I.e issues of access to data for young people. Access, speed and cost are the main issues. Government needs to get the right parties to engage on this," he said. Backchat participant Zuko Godlimpi, brought a solid argument on how the question of connectivity has to do with access to information as a democratic value. "The question of connectivity has to do with access to information as a democratic value and if we then agree that part of the democratic discourse in South Africa includes open access to information, including open access to the Parliamentary session; and we agree that the Parliamentary session in South Africa is flighted on DSTV and online - then we are effectively making the concession that rural youth who do not have access to these things are therefore blocked out of the democratic process. The problem with Government is precisely this fact: We have an agency like ICASA that is captured by the same commercial interest that it's supposed to be regulating, to the extent that now we have to pay exorbitant margins for things that are actually cheap," said Godlimpi. While South Africa's social media users rally under the slogan, #DataMustFall Touch Central CEO, T-bo Touch spoke about a plan of action regarding #DataMustFall with its upcoming march. "There's a march on November 17th, that is currently in talks but the memorandum has been handed over to all CEOs of the Networks, including Telkom. I think through this march, we can demonstrate a similar plan of action of going into a data hunger strike where if we're not getting the attention that we feel reciprocates our cause, we can survive. We did live without Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. And if Touch Central must be off-air as well, we'll do the very same thing too," said Touch.  