Cape Town - A 16-year-old has apologised for sending a video via WhatsApp to a 14-year-old Groote Schuur High pupil in which she swears and makes threats, ending it with the chilling words: “Let the police escort you home now already because if they don’t then I will escort you to your grave.” The teen is egged on by two friends while shooting the video. In her apology, she apologises to everyone who was hurt by the video, including, “the person I was talking about in the video”. The teen said she felt ashamed of the bad language and everything else she said in the video. In a later post, she said she felt as if she was being judged for making a mistake and went on to thank “all those that are standing by me and those that are hating on me, you are only making me stronger”. Many commented on social media, calling her apology insincere. The aunt of the bullying victim told Heart FM DJ Aden Thomas that the video came after an incident involving a misunderstanding over an Instagram account, and said they believed it was mainly about popularity. She said it started with nasty voice notes being sent to her niece on WhatsApp. The video was sent at the weekend. Thomas posted the video on to Facebook where it was shared and watched thousands of times. [IOL has chosen not to post the video because it involves minors]. The aunt said she also had a 14-year-old and had been talking to her about social media and thinking before you post. “Why do they think it is okay to send something like this? She feels ashamed at school and none of it is her fault. There was an incident but that does not justify what this girl said in the video.” The Western Cape Education Department issued a statement saying the girls who appeared in the video were suspended, pending disciplinary action and counselling. Jessica Shelver, spokeswoman for education MEC Debbie Schafer, said the department had a “zero tolerance” approach to bullying at schools and were concerned about the video. “The school management teams and school governing body will host an assembly to address all the learners and intervene as required.” She appealed to parents to keep an eye on children and report matters should they arise. “Parents of course also have a crucial role to play in raising their children not to be bullies, and not to show them the example of being a bully. Far too few take this seriously, and this needs to change. Parents can contact the nearest District Office if they are not happy with the response of the school.” Shelver said they noted there were various kinds of bullying and “any form of bullying can have dire consequences, and as schools, parents and educators, we have to respond accordingly and in a timeous manner”. Dr Gillian Mooney, Teaching and Learning Manager at The Independent Institute of Education, said there had been an increase in the number and severity of bullying incidents at South African schools. “Almost every week we hear of another desperate learner or parent having to deal with the physical and emotional trauma of bullying, yet society and authorities” responses continue to be reactive and unsuccessful in addressing the bigger issue.” She added there were serious interventions that were needed to address bullying at schools. “These cases making it into the media represent only a fraction of the mistreatment many children go through. But the devastating consequences of bullying are leaving a lasting mark on the lives of countless youngsters, and the problem will continue growing unless an effective strategy is developed and consistently enforced.” Mooney said people felt free to behave “appallingly” to a degree that it had become an acceptable practice. “Bullying has a ripple effect. The bully, the victim and the bystander are affected. Other problematic home circumstances, for instance domestic abuse, divorce or the death of a parent, could also provide context in which the bully seeks to gain power through negative behaviour. “Ways must urgently be found to address the prevailing power imbalance by demonstrating that bullying will consistently have clear and structured consequences for perpetrators.”  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus