Salem, Massachusetts - The Satanic Temple is waging religious battles along a variety of fronts nationwide, and its co-founder says it&apos;s just getting started.The three-year-old organisation is fighting to get a nearly 9-foot statue (2,7m) of the goat-headed idol Baphomet placed outside the Arkansas state capitol.Members have also proposed &quot;After School Satan&quot; clubs in elementary schools from Oregon to Georgia.And they&apos;re pushing city councils from Massachusetts to California to allow Satanists to give the opening prayer at public meetings - just as Christian, Jewish and other religious clerics have long done.The Associated Press caught up with Temple co-founder Lucien Greaves as the organisation settles into its new international headquarters in a former funeral parlour in Salem, the city north of Boston infamous for its 17th-century witch trials.The organisation claims about 20 chapters and 50,000 members worldwide, including outposts in Britain, Finland, Italy and the Netherlands.Greaves&apos; comments have been edited for clarity and length.AP: You&apos;ve got some pretty serious security on this place. How&apos;s the reception in town been?Greaves: You know, I was foreseeing a lot of pushback, and that really didn&apos;t happen, and I&apos;m really happy about that. You should have seen the reaction when we unveiled the Baphomet monument in Detroit last year. There were death threats, protests - just a whole lot of ugliness. So the opening here was kind of low-key. We didn&apos;t really make an event of it.AP: For those who don&apos;t know, what&apos;s the Satanic Temple all about?Greaves: The Satanic Temple has seven tenets that describe our belief system. Personal autonomy, freedom of belief, scientific rationalism - those are really the core of the tenets. They say very little about Satan or why you would identify as a Satanist. ...The tenets are meant to be universal.AP: So are you Satan worshippers?Greaves: Definitely not. In fact, the idea of &quot;worship&quot; is antithetical to our anti-authoritarian philosophy. Devil worship implies a theistic point of view. We consider ourselves a non-theistic religious organisation.AP: Is the Satanic Temple a legally recognised religion? And does that affect your legal standing in court battles if not?Greaves: We are incorporated as a religious organisation, though we&apos;re a company rather than a tax-exempt religious non-profit. If, by some circumstance, we find our religious legitimacy denied by a public agency for the fact that we&apos;ve never sought IRS-recognised religious exemption, I have little doubt that the courts would rule in our favour. ... We feel that it&apos;s our sense of cultural identity, narrative and shared ethics that make us a religion.AP: How are you different from other Satanist groups?Greaves: We&apos;re actually active and relevant today. (Other groups) will say they stand for certain things and stand against certain things, but those words ring hollow if there isn&apos;t some commensurate activity attached to it. ... What matters to us is self-identified Satanists standing up and saying they have a place in the world so that the evangelical theocrats don&apos;t have a monopoly over what constitutes religious freedom.AP: The Portland, Oregon chapter of the Satanic Temple is planning an open house for an &quot;After School Satan&quot; club in a Portland elementary school sometime next month. What can students, teachers and parents expect?Greaves: We&apos;re not interested in turning kids away from their Christian background. We really want this to be enriching. We&apos;re not going to proselytise or make ham-fisted religious tirades. Our curriculum does not contain items of religious opinion. It contains fun activities premised on critical thinking, reasoning skills and the scientific, rationalist view of the world.AP: Doesn&apos;t sound very Satanic. Why call it an &quot;After School Satan&quot; club at all?Greaves: I&apos;d say it sends a positive message that it&apos;s called the &quot;After School Satan&quot; club and that it&apos;s run by people who self-identify as Satanists. It&apos;s helpful for children to see that people can hold diametrically opposed religious points of view, but still be good, productive members of society, be non-criminal and friendly.AP: What else is on the horizon for the Satanic Temple?Greaves: We&apos;re trying not to spread ourselves too thin. There&apos;s a huge demand for starting chapters. We&apos;re doing the best we can to keep up with the interest without letting it get completely unmanageable. It&apos;s a balancing act. ... Hopefully, it&apos;ll get to the point where I feel I can write a book about what we&apos;re doing and why we&apos;re doing it - the things everybody always asks about.AP IOL News on Facebook IOL on Twitter