Unions belonging to the country’s soon-to-be launched new labour federation are warning of a secondary strike if wage negotiations at Robertson Winery in the Western Cape do not go according to plan. They said on Wednesday that they were confident that workers in 30 companies that supply the winery with grapes would participate in the mass action. “In the event that Robertson Winery does not cooperate in these negotiations, we are going to make a call that all farm workers in the Western Cape must prepare themselves to embark in a secondary strike to challenge these racist farm bosses in the Western Cape,” the union said in a statement. They also called on all South African retailers and the international community to boycott Robertson Winery in the Western Cape. Workers, who have been on strike for more than two months, are demanding a living wage and an end to “slavery and exploitation”. They say that salary distribution is based on colour, with white skilled workers earn three times more than black employees. The unions also accused the winery on Wednesday of bringing in temporary labour to do the jobs of the employees instead of finding a solution to the current impasse. “Robertson Winery is a company that makes billions of rand from the sweat and blood of these poor workers in Robertson in the Western Cape. They are selling their wine all over the world in dollars, Euros, and many other currencies but they continue to exploit workers,” the unions said in a statement. They said they were also concerned by the lack of support for the workers from the Wine and Agriculture Industry Ethical Association (WIETA). It was meant to ensure fair labour practices for farm workers, but had failed to do so, the unions claimed. “The silence of WIETA at this crucial time means approval of this barbaric act against poor workers.” The group has urged all community members from Robertson and surrounding areas in the province to join in and support the farm workers in their struggle. Labour Bureau