KWV celebrates the coming of summer with a sparkly twist on 3 classic world famous champagne cocktails, recipes below. The serendipity The Serendipity cocktail was created in September 1994 by Colin Peter Filed, head bartender of Hemingway Bar at Hotel Ritz Paris and was the most served drink on the hotel's menu for nearly two decades. If you're looking to recreate this world-famous cocktail, try this local twist on the classic to ensure your celebration of summer days are serendipitous. Ingredients - 30ml of KWV 5-Year-Old Brandy - KWV Sparkling Demi Sec - 50ml of clear apple juice - 2 sprigs of fresh mint - 1 spoon of sugar Method 1.	Put the mint, KWV 5-Year-Old Brandy, and sugar into a tumbler glass 2.	Stir, then add the clear apple juice and ice 3.	Top with KWV Demi Sec sparkling wine and stir gently KWV 5-year-old brandy has ripe apple, pear and raisin flavours enhanced by mild toasted oak aromas and the KWV Demi-Sec sparkling wine has rich tropical fruity aromas characteristic of the Chenin Blanc grapes used. To Serve Garnish with mint sprig  The Serendipity cocktail was created in September 1994 by Colin Peter Filed. Credit: Supplied READ: 5 tips to get the most out of the #InnerCityWineRoute Death in the afternoon Is a cocktail made up of absinthe and Champagne invented by world-renowned author Ernest Hemingway, which can be recreated using KWV Cuvée Brut sparkling wine which has rich tropical fruity aromas characteristic of the Chenin Blanc grapes. Ingredients - KWV Sparkling Cuvée Brut - Absinthe Method Fairly simple to make, the recipe's original instructions appear in a 1935 cocktail book and were contributed to Hemingway himself, who instructed: 1.	Pour one jigger absinthe into a champagne glass 2.	Add iced champagne until it attains the proper opalescent milkiness 3.	Drink three to five of these slowly To Serve Serve in a champagne flute.  A cocktail made up of absinthe and Champagne invented by world-renowned author Ernest Hemingway. Credit: Supplied READ: John Legend and Belvedere Vodka join forces to fight Aids French 75 Dating back to 1915, this cocktail was first made at the landmark New York Bar in Paris and the combination was said to have a real kick by locals of the bar. KWV Sparkling Rosé is a most refreshing option that presents aromas of fresh strawberry, cherry and delicate blossoms. It also adds a lighter and colourful twist to this classic cocktail. Ingredients - 45ml KWV Cruxland Gin - 15ml of lemon juice - 7ml of simple syrup - KWV Sparkling Rosé - Lemon for garnishing Method 1.	Make simple syrup with equal parts hot water and sugar 2.	Measure the gin, lemon juice and simple syrup with the jigger and pour into the mixing glass of the cocktail mixer 3.	Cover mixture with ice and shake for 8-10 seconds 4.	Strain with a cocktail strainer and pour into champagne flute and top with KWV Sparkling Rosé To Serve Serve in a champagne flute and garnish with a peel of lemon.  Dating back to 1915, this cocktail was first made at the landmark New York Bar in Paris. Credit: Supplied  Join the conversation on Facebook and Twitter today! 