by ZINHLE NZIMANDE and SIHLE MLAMBO Durban - Despite being awarded prestigious bursaries for their studies, students have spoken out about financial difficulties they face at university. Tata-University of KwaZulu-Natal scholarship recipient, Ntlahla Tshezi, 30, received funding for his Master’s in town planning. His undergraduate studies were funded by the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS), but he said university was tough. He is the first university graduate in his area of KwaNdela, Bizana, and is the son of a domestic worker and a gardener. He had spent four years doing odd jobs before he decided to study. For three years, he received university concessions of up to R25 000 per year for academic achievement, but he still owes the financial aid scheme over R100 000. “It is a lot of money, that is why it is hard for a black child… I finish my university, I still have to pay NSFAS, I need to support my siblings back home,” he said. He said he had persisted with his Master’s despite not having secured a donor, until one day he received an e-mail from Tata regarding funding. “It was hard financially. Each and every day I asked myself where will I get the assistance to do my Master’s. But I continued until one day I received an e-mail. I couldn’t believe it, I was very happy, I even called to check if this was real. Thank you for allowing the dream of an African child to be possible.” Newcastle-born Siphiwe Zulu, 26, a Master’s graduate in public policy, who plans to pursue his PhD next year, said the scholarships had helped him as he struggled with student debt. He was funded by NSFAS for two years before securing a Johnson’s bursary and later, a Tata-UKZN Scholarship. “I always made sure I performed at my level best at all times. I did this so that if I ever requested any assistance, there would be no hesitation or worries of the money going to waste,” said Zulu. Thabiso Tenza, a graduate with a Master’s in housing, said he had contemplated dropping out before he secured funding. “It came as a surprise, I thought I was going to have to put my studies on hold,” he said. “I called my mom and I told her we are relieved financially,” he said.