 Johannesburg - Seeing Gavin Hunt lift his first trophy with Bidvest Wits after winning the MTN8 final this past weekend stirred all sorts of emotions in Glen Salmon. Firstly, the coach of Wits’ MultiChoice Diski Challenge (MDC) team was extremely happy for his head coach who had, in winning the trophy, lifted the pressure off his shoulders. After all, Hunt had struggled to bring in silverware to the club, following his arrival back in 2013. On the other hand, Salmon couldn’t help but feel some sort of pressure to deliver as well this season. It was never part the plan, or the club’s mandate, for him to win the MDC title. The plan was, as it has always been in the previous MDC editions, to get players promoted from their junior ranks into the first team. That’s all he had to do. But now things have changed. “I’ll be honest with you,” Salmon said. “The MDC was more of a platform for us to fast track the development of our players into the first team. That’s all we had to do. We had no ambitions of wining it.” But things have now changed. “Huntie has just delivered his first title for the club. I’m very happy for him. But we now also have to follow suit. It’s too early to predict. We don’t know whether we’ll win it or not. But that’s now our ambition. “With that in mind,” Salmon added. “we now have to continue pushing for maximum points in every game we get to participate in.  Doing so will see us achieve our objective of winning this title this season.” Wits, who are top of the MDC league with nine points from their three games, host Ajax Cape Town at Bidvest Stadium on Sunday  noon.Salmon said it was crucial for his side not to go into this encounter thinking that Ajax are going to be an easy side to beat. The Urban Warriors make the trip up to the reef on the back of two consecutive defeats. Given his experience, Salmon knows that such teams can be dangerous and any kind of complacency could lead to Wits suffering their maiden defeat of the season. “Ajax are a very strong side,” Salmon said. “They have good development structures. Sure they’ve lost two of their previous matches but we cannot therefore make conclusions that we are also going to win against them. We just cannot. They’ll be raring for a win in this clash, and we need to be watchful of that.” And with their seniors having brought home silverware, Salmon and his team just can't drop the ball. “The first team is doing well,” Salmon added. “But I believe we’ve got the squad to compete for the title.” The Star