The IAB SA has announced Chris Borain, Group Commercial Director at the Mail & Guardian Group as its new Chairperson, supported by Paula Hulley from Gloo@Ogilvy as Vice Chairperson. With their complementary skills and experience, they are well-equipped to grow the IAB SA and guide it through the ever-evolving digital landscape. Chris' career includes experience as Primedia Online's CEO, Head of Finance and Business Development for BBC Worldwide Channels, Head of Digital Media for Independent Media and, currently, Group Commercial Director for Mail and Guardian. His priority is to continue positioning digital as a powerful commercial sector. “Jarred, in partnership with Josephine Buys and the rest of the team, has led the IAB SA with distinction and I appreciate the opportunity to follow in these footsteps. I look forward to working with Paula, as we bring together different skill sets, energies and enthusiasms,” says Chris. Paula Hulley, Managing Director at Gloo@Ogilvy offers diverse experience across copywriting, pure advertising, as well as activation and digital channels. At the helm of Gloo@Ogilvy, she has had defining experience in creating and co-creating engaging digital content for South Africa's biggest brands. Jarred Cinman, outgoing Chair of the IAB SA said, “It's been an exciting 3.5 years and we've left the organisation transformed from where we started. We are more engaged with regulatory environment than ever before, with Andrew Allison doing an enormous amount to position IAB as an influential force. The IAB Bookmark Awards and Summit has become a key event on digital calendar. Most important part of my legacy is bringing Josephine on board. We have launched the PwC report that tries to size the Internet marketing industry in South Africa and set big plans in motion for education, transformation and assisting our members with BEE.” Josephine Buys, CEO of the IAB SA said, “When I speak of and appreciate the sheer scope and value of the IAB volunteers, board and council members, please trust me when I say that Jarred's input, support, guidance, expertise and dedication to digital is unparalleled. I look forward to working alongside Chris and Paula to build on this legacy.” Another change to the board included the resignation of Fred Roed, also Head of Agencies, who will be replaced by Kerry Friend, previous Executive Creative Director Isobar South Africa & NowLab, who has just moved to FCB. IAB's internationally have a high percentage of marketers and brands participating in decisions and dialogue around digital. IAB SA CEO, Josephine Buys honoured the IAB's core and legacy members, while welcoming the new and active business sectors in digital; brands, ad tech and the educators who have such a critical and valuable role in the growth of digital. The new leadership, as well as the integration of more business sectors into the IAB SA's remit, illustrate the inclusive, important role digital plays within business as a whole. IOL, adapted from a press release