Cape Town's Derek Plaatjies and the Kryptonite Dance Academy filled up the third and fourth vacancies in the list of SA's Got Talent finalists. The second semi-finals saw the two acts claim their position in the finals after a very tough fight against  Basement 8, Chik Aljoy, Wilson, Eagan Feb and Two 'O Bodix. The live show took place at Jabulani Theatre in Soweto, with comedian Tol A$$ Mo as the host. The comedian is really perfecting his skills as a presenter and had the audience in stitches and tweeps commenting on his skills. This was the tougher of the two semi-finals, with the audience and judges loving each act on stage. Michael Jackson impersonator and chef by profession Eagan Feb broke the ice, followed by a firm favourite singer Derek Plaatjies, who sang Justin Bieber's 'Love Yourself'. Judge DJ Fresh said that he was worried there for a minute when Eagan began, but “you brought the noise!” he concluded. Shado and Jamie were equally impressed by his performance. Shado asked for the CD, after Basement 8's performance, sending a message that the music is worthy of her collection, while DJ Fresh’s joyful expression said it all. The youngsters were very happy to have impressed Jamie, who was not impressed by their first audition. Justin Bieber seemed to be the artist of choice for the night as Two O'bodix danced to his hit 'Where Are You Now?' with their synchronised robot-like moves. “You two operate as one; there is a powerful link you share and you upped your game,” Shado shared. Fresh's Golden Buzzer act Chick Aljoy was an interesting one to watch and the DJ was impressed, while Jamie commented, “That was not masipa”, which left everyone laughing. Wilson's narrative through gymnastics and dance also lead Jamie to call him the “mercury” of the show. Kryptonite's energy filled the stage and all Shado could say was “the swag” was on overflow. Fifi Cooper gave a stellar performance as they tallied the results - and standing next to Mo - looked even more petite. The nervous energy could be felt in the air as the finalists were announced. Most votes went to Derek Plaatjies, sending him straight to the finals while the judges made the choice to send Kryptonite Dance Academy to the finals over Eagan Feb.  • More finalists will be revealed every Sunday at 18:00, and the finale will take place on November 6.  IOL