Mamelodi Sundowns reached the final of the CAF Champions League in dramatic fashion. Njabulo Ngidi looks at that bumpy road to the final in a three-part series. Today, in the last part, he looks at their semi-final against Zesco United Johannesbrug - Sundowns met a familiar opponent in Zesco United in the last four of the Champions League. The two clubs enjoy a good relationship. They have visited each other in Ndola and in Chloorkop in pre-season, playing three friendly matches. The Brazilians even loaned out Zambian defender Hichani Himoonde and Togolese international Emmanuel Mathias to Zesco two years ago. The mutual respect was evident on the field in an entertaining two-legged affair. Despite tension and some frustrating moments, the two matches were highlighted by good sportsmanship on-and-off the field. It’s a rare thing at this stage of the competition where clubs do all they can to win in a competition that tests more than your talent but also your mental strength and ability to be calm under pressure as well. Zesco troubled Sundowns with their speed in the first leg, especially the fullbacks Tebogo Langerman and Siyanda Zwane. Thabo Nthethe, who is also not that fast, was stretched out a lot trying to cover for them. Only Wayne Arendse had a good game at the back. Sundowns allowed him to leave Pietermaritzburg, where they were going to play Maritzburg United on September 14, to go home to Cape Town to be with his family after the birth of his son. He briefly spent time there before going to Ndola, arriving a day before the game, which the Brazilians lost 2-1. Khama Billiat did, however, score a crucial away goal at the death. “It was tough but I had to do it,” Arendse said last month, describing the emotions he experienced when he had to leave his new-born son for the semi-final of the Champions League. “It would be nice to top it off by winning this trophy, so that I can tell my boy one day that I rushed to witness his birth and then had to quickly fly to Ndola to help my team qualify for the final. If we win this cup, he will always be at the back of my mind when I look at the gold medal because I will be reminded of him.” It wasn’t surprising then that an inspired Arendse helped Sundowns keep a clean sheet in the second leg and reach the final of the Champions League for the first time in 15 years. It’s been a long wait, but a wait that has been all worth it for the 31-year-old. The Brazilians will hope that their wait is also worth it by returning as African champions after their second leg trip to Alexandria. Semi-final Zesco United 2-1 Mamelodi Sundowns - Ndola, September 17 Sundowns 2-0 Zesco United - Pretoria, September 24 Sundowns won 3-2 on aggregate @extrastrongsa The Star