Nairobi – The Government of Kenya is lobbying for its current Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed to be the next head of the African Union (AU) Commission. President Uhuru Kenyatta said that Kenya had submitted Mohamed’s name for the post. He said Mohamed had extraordinary experience and distinguished service at the national and international levels. Mohamed will compete with Agapito Mba Mokuy of Equatorial Guinea, Abdoulaye Bathily of Senegal and Botswana’s Pelonomi Venson-Moitoi for the position. The current Chair, South Africa’s Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, did not apply for a second term after the expiry of her first term. She has been at the helm of AUC since 2012. In July 2016, elections for members of the AU Commission were held in Kigali Rwanda. However, none of the three contenders for the post of Chairperson obtained the required two-thirds majority. This led to a suspension of the elections. Elections are slated for January 2017, and names of contenders shall be circulated by October 14, according to the AU. Mohamed has accepted her nomination by Kenya for the post of Chairperson of the AU Commission, saying she was humbled by the privilege as well as the confidence and trust bestowed on her. In a short statement, Mohamed promised to do her best to serve the continent well if elected to the post during the African Union Summit in January next year. “If elected, I promise to do my best to serve the continent well. Once again, Your excellency, I thank you very much for this confidence and trust that you have bestowed on me,” said Mohamed. In a statement, Kenyatta said that among the most significant of Mohamed’s achievements include being the first woman to lead the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Trade of Kenya. “Cumulatively, these assignments have earned Kenya and Mohamed international acclaim and respect,” said Kenyatta. Between 2008-2011 Mohamed was Kenya’s Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Justice, National Cohesion and Constitutional Affairs, charged with the responsibility of the Constitutional Review and implementation process. In 2011, she was appointed by the UN Secretary General as UN Assistant Secretary General and Deputy Executive Director of the UN Environment Programme (UNEP). During her tenure UNEP was upgraded from a 58- member Governing Body to the UN Environment Assembly (UNEA), encompassing all members of the United Nations. “Given her track record, I am confident that Amina Mohamed will serve our Continent with the requisite professionalism, intellect, skill, integrity, passion and commitment,” said Kenyatta. “I have no doubt that her international experience and exposure will be an invaluable asset in driving African Commission in the achievement of Africa`s immense potential.” African News Agency