Cape Cobras coach Paul Adams has called on his batsmen to “put up a base in the first innings” when they take on the Knights in a Sunfoil Series clash in Bloemfontein on Tuesday. The Cobras top-order were decimated in both innings of their competition opener against the Highveld Lions at the Wanderers last week, with the first four wickets being lost for 55 and 17 runs in the first and second innings respectively. The only batsman to emerge with any credit from the 10-wicket defeat was allrounder Jason Smith, who scored a brilliant 95 off 117 balls (16x4). But Smith told the Cobras website on Monday that the Wanderers pitch was “a dodgy wicket”, so the Cape side will be hoping for a friendlier surface in Bloemfontein. However, things won’t be any easier after they had to contend with Proteas Test paceman Hardus Viljoen (6/75 in the second innings) last week. Knights opening bowlers Marchant de Lange and Duanne Olivier took 16 of the 20 Titans wickets to fall in a four-wicket victory at Centurion last week, and will look to continue their good form against the Cobras. And Adams’ cause hasn’t been helped this week by the withdrawal of opening batsman Andrew Puttick (personal reasons) and Vernon Philander (tooth procedure). They are set to be replaced by Matthew Kleinveldt and Beuran Hendricks. “You have to bat better than we did, especially in that first innings,” Adams said in a Cricket South Africa press release on Monday. “That’s what created the pressure. So yes, it was a tough one against the Lions, but it’s important now that we trust the processes that we follow. “And that’s to show a lot more character when conditions are tougher and make sure we try to put up a base in that first innings, when it’s so important.” Senior batsmen such as captain Omphile Ramela and Stiaan van Zyl would hope to follow the lead of youngster Smith, who showed great patience in nearly reaching his maiden first-class century for the Cobras last week. “I think I left very well (against the Lions), and forced them to bowl straight. If they produced anything full or any bad deliveries, I dispatched it,” Smith said. “Most of my 16 boundaries were either driven straight or through the covers. I think we have a world-class top-order, and the players are taking the 10-wicket defeat quite hard. But it was quite a dodgy wicket.” Play is set to start at 10am on Tuesday at the Mangaung Oval in Bloemfontein.  ashfak.mohamed@inl.co.za  @ashfakmohamed Likely Cape Cobras Team Matthew Kleinveldt, Omphile Ramela (captain), Stiaan van Zyl, Zubayr Hamza, Dane Vilas, Jason Smith, Aviwe Mgijima, Dane Piedt, Dane Paterson, Beuran Hendricks, Tshepo Moreki.