Durban - The SABC has denied that group executive: corporate affairs, Hlaudi Motsoeneng “took a swipe” at Lotus FM and threatened to change the name of the radio station. On Friday the SABC said “Motsoeneng's comments were taken out of context to create sensationalism”. Many media organisations quoted Motsoeneng as saying he was “tired” of names such as Radio Lotus which did not represent “our culture”. He also angered Indians earlier this year when the 90 percent music quota he was instrumental in introducing on SABC radio stations caused Lotus FM to lose listeners, who were unimpressed with the new music. Read: Warrapen Hlaudi? “The SABC would like to put it on record that the corporation’s group executive: corporate affairs, Hlaudi Motsoeneng at no point took a swipe at Lotus FM as insinuated in the article,” read the statement. “In the context of a meeting which was held with Tsonga traditional leaders, Mr Motsoeneng emphasised the need for the South African public to engage the SABC on matters, which affect their communities. One example given at the discussion was the naming of radio stations as an opportunity for the public to give input that is representative of their culture and traditions. “It is appalling that Mr Motsoeneng’s comments were taken out of context to create sensationalism around the story. The SABC regrets the misrepresentation and would like to reaffirm its respect for the diverse nature of the South African public, including the Indian community.” Community leaders were united in condemning the suggestion the station be renamed. Former eThekwini Speaker Logie Naidoo said: “Hlaudi must come to realise the mandate of Lotus is to play Indian music and to air vernacular music, just like the Zulu and Venda (stations). There must be a strong argument (made) to change the name.” Ashwin Desai, of the University of Johannesburg’s sociology department, said: “He is not going to be able to change that name.” And the president of the SA Hindu Maha Sabha, Ashwin Trikamjee, said: “The issue will require a thorough debate and consultation with the community it (Lotus FM) serves. “This is not a matter for traditional leaders to decide. We will ensure that this (the thorough debate) happens, as the SABC is the national broadcaster, serving the needs of all sections of the South African society.” Independent on Saturday