There is something about the combination of sweet and sour that gets one’s tastebuds going. Often associated with oriental dishes, it can be so much more than sweet-and-sour chicken served with noodles. The sourness in recipes can be introduced with ingredients like vinegar, lemon juice and even tamarind. Sweetness is used to balance and complement the tartness with ingredients like sugar, pineapple, other fruit and fruit juice. The trick is getting the perfect balance so that the tartness doesn’t catch in your throat. Everyone’s taste is also different so keep experimenting until you find your perfect balance. ... SWEET AND SOUR MEATBALLS Serves 4-6 500g beef mince 1 bunch of spring onions, chopped 15ml grated ginger 5ml chopped garlic pinch of chilli flakes 250ml breadcrumbs salt and pepper 30ml oil, for frying 440g tin of pineapple pieces, juice drained 45ml cornflour 30ml white wine vinegar 15ml brown sugar 45ml soy sauce 30ml tomato sauce 125ml water 1 onion, cut into cubes 1 yellow pepper, cut into cubes 200g cherry tomatoes, halved thin egg or Hokkien noodles, to serve Combine the mince, spring onions, ginger, garlic, chilli flakes and breadcrumbs in a bowl and mix until well combined. Season with salt and pepper. Roll tablespoonfuls of mixture into small balls. Heat the oil in a frying pan and brown the meatballs in batches. Place in an ovenproof dish. Set aside. Drain the pineapple juice in a bowl. Add the cornflour and stir until smooth. Add the pineapple and the rest of the ingredients and mix well. Pour over the meatballs. Bake in a preheated oven at 200°C for 20-30 minutes until meatballs are cooked through and sauce has slightly thickened. Serve on a bed of noodles. ... SWEET AND SOUR PORK BUNS Makes 20-25 FILLING 300g pork steaks/fillet 15ml soy sauce 10ml sesame oil 45ml cornflour 1 egg white oil for frying 60ml tomato sauce 400g tin of crushed pineapple, well drained and juice reserved 30ml honey 30ml soy sauce 15ml tamarind paste 15ml apple cider vinegar ½ red onion, finely chopped ½ red pepper, finely diced 15ml chopped garlic 10ml chopped ginger 10ml cornflour mixed with water DOUGH 750ml self-raising flour 5ml baking powder 125ml castor sugar 5ml salt 60ml oil about 180ml warm water FILLING: Cut the meat into strips, and in a bowl combine with the soy sauce, sesame oil, cornflour and egg white. Mix well. Set aside for 30 minutes. Heat some oil in a wok or frying pan and fry the meat in batches until golden brown. Drain on paper towel. Cut the meat into smaller pieces. Combine tomato sauce, 180ml of the reserved pineapple juice, honey, soy sauce, tamarind and vinegar in a jug and mix well. Heat a little more oil in the wok and fry the onion, red pepper, garlic, ginger and 125ml of the crushed pineapple. Reserve 60ml of the tomato sauce mix and add the rest to the onion and pepper mix in the wok. Add the cornflour mixed with the water and cook for 2 to 3 minutes. Add this to the chopped meat and allow to cool. DOUGH: In a bowl combine the flour, baking powder, sugar and salt and mix well. Make a well in the mixture and add the oil and enough water to bring the mixture together to form a dough that is soft but not sticky. Knead the dough well until smooth. Roll the dough into a sausage shape and cut it into 20 equal portions. Roll each portion into a disc shape. Place a tablespoon of the filling into the centre of the disc and gather up the dough to enclose the filling. Pinch it well to seal. Repeat with all the dough and filling. Place each bun on a square of non-stick baking paper and place them in a bamboo steam basket, allowing room for the buns to rise. Place the basket over boiling water in either a pot or wok and steam the buns for 15-20 minutes until firm to the touch. Serve the buns with the reserved tomato sauce mix. ... SWEET AND SOUR BRAISED CABBAGE Serves 10-12 30g butter 2 red onions, halved and sliced 500g red cabbage, shredded 1 green apple, peeled and grated 125ml brown sugar 2ml nutmeg 5ml cinnamon 2 whole cloves 2 bay leaves 125ml cider vinegar 60ml red wine vinegar 125ml apple juice 180ml apple sauce 15ml cornflour 30ml cold water 125ml chopped fresh parsley Heat the butter in a pot and fry the onions for 5 minutes. Add the cabbage and fry for a further 5 minutes. Add the grated apple, sugar, nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves, bay leaves, vinegars, apple juice and apple sauce and stir well. Simmer for 20-30 minutes until cabbage is tender. Discard the bay leaves and cloves. Mix the cornflour and water together to form a paste and add to the cabbage mixture. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes until mixture thickens. Season with salt and pepper. Stir in the parsley and serve. ... SWEET AND SOUR CARROT SALAD Serves 8-10 1kg carrots, peeled and sliced 1 onion, thinly sliced 1 green pepper, thinly sliced SAUCE 400g tin of tomato soup 250ml sugar 60ml sunflower or canola oil 180ml apple cider vinegar 15ml mustard seeds 30ml Worcestershire sauce salt and pepper 30ml cornflour mixed with some water Bring a pot of water to the boil and add the carrots. Boil for about 5 minutes until just tender but still crisp. Drain and rinse under cold water. Combine in a bowl with the onions and pepper. SAUCE: Combine the soup, sugar, oil, vinegar, mustard seeds, Worcestershire sauce and seasoning in a pot and bring to the boil. Stir in the cornflour mixture and stir until the mixture thickens. Remove from the heat and pour over the carrots. Cover and refrigerate overnight. The salad will keep for 2 weeks bottled in the fridge.