Police investigating the theft - which saw the 35-year-old beauty lose over $10 million worth of property to a group of men who raided her Paris apartment - reportedly discovered a tiny gemstone close to the residence, and are hoping the oversight will lead to proof the gang made more mistakes and will be easier to trace. A source told Mail on Sunday newspaper: “A piece of stolen jewellery was found close to the block, and was presumably dropped by the gang. It suggests that the criminals may have made mistakes because they were in such a hurry.” The news comes shortly as it was reported Kim and her husband Kanye West - who have children North, three, and Saint, 10 months, together - have called in special forces veterans to help find the perpetrators and overhaul their personal security plan. A source told the Sunday People newspaper: “They've decided to use their own experts as part of their security overhaul. Some of them have worked for the world's top intelligence agencies. If anyone can get to the bottom of what went on, these guys will. “For Kim, it's about feeling safe. She needs to know that a security breach like this will never happen again. “For Kanye, it's about knowing exactly who is responsible.” And it has been claimed that Kim is looking for a body double after her terrible ordeal in which five armed, masked men stormed into her room and tied her up with plastic handcuffs and duct tape. A source previously said: “There's a circus that follows Kim's every move. Her new security team is recommending she employ a body double to help confuse would-be assailants.” Kanye - who resumed his 'Saint Pablo' tour over the weekend after postponing two dates to look after Kim - is said to be feeling “helpless” following the robbery. An insider explained: “Kanye says that it has been one of the hardest times of his life, that he feels helpless. “This is a guy who isn't used to feeling helpless at all. He's usually in control. And now he sees that he could have lost her, and there wasn't a thing he could do about it.” Bang Showbiz