Parliament – Acting national police commissioner Khomotso Phahlane on Monday denied allegations that police were targeting student leaders in a bid to destabilise the #FeesMustFall movement. Briefing journalists from Pretoria, Phahlane confirmed the arrest of former University of Witwatersrand (Wits) Student Representative Council president Mcebo Dlamini. The 32-year-old was arrested in the early hours of Sunday morning at his residence on campus. “He appeared in a Johannesburg court today [Monday] and the case has been remanded until tomorrow [Tuesday] for a bail application,” said Phahlane. “His arrest has led to allegations that the police is specifically targeting student leaders or trying to destabilise the #FeesMustFall initiative. This is untrue. The role of the police is to prevent, investigate and combat crime and to maintain stability.” Dlamini faces charges related to the ongoing protests calling for free education which have in recent weeks turned violent with students and police often seen clashing on campuses across the country. Phahlane also bemoaned what he called a “disinformation campaign” being carried out on social media. “Several allegations are being made via social media alleging, among other things, that female students have been attacked, assaulted and randomly shot in their residences, particularly at Wits. We have looked into these allegations and found absolutely no evidence to support them and police deployed there have vehemently denied such conduct,” he said. “We therefore make an appeal that anyone who claims to have been treated in such a manner by the police should open a criminal case, provide witness names and/or evidence and allow the matter to be thoroughly investigated. [Independent Police Investigative Directorate] IPID may be approached by anyone who alleges to have been violated by the police.” Phahlane said a total of 567 people have been arrested from February 1, in connection with the violent protests, and also expressed concern over several incidents of arson and petrol bomb attacks that have taken place in and around various campuses across the country over the weekend. On Friday night, several people, including students from the University of Witwatersrand (Wits) went on the rampage in the streets of Braamfontein, “stoning and setting vehicles alight”, including a South African Broadcasting Corporation vehicle, said Phahlane. “Police members attended the scene the scene and were also pelted with stones and bottles from the street and from the tops of buildings,” he said. “Police reinforcements were called in and after the necessary police action, stability was restored in the early hours, only to be followed by incidents of the police on duty at Wits being sporadically stoned from the men’s residence on campus.” Nine people, four of them “verified as students”, were arrested. The HIV Support Unit and Student Affairs offices were partially burnt at the Howard College campus of the University of KwaZulu-Natal on Friday night after petrol bombs were thrown at the buildings. On Monday morning, the cricket club house at the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University was gutted after being set alight. Phahlane said police officers confiscated “large quantities of petrol” found near universities. “Police vehicles have also been attacked with petrol bombs,” he said. The commissioner said the incidents were proof that “criminal elements or groups with their own agendas have infiltrated the #FeesMustFall initiative for their own purposes”. He said police officers would remain on campuses to protect students writing exams and to prevent disruptions. “We continue to take action to disperse students who are disrupting classes and targeting those who wish to study and write exams,” he said. African News Agency