Johannesburg – A male student at the University of Zululand (UniZulu) has been gunned down at the weekend during an apparent house robbery in Vulindlela, the township surrounding the university’s main campus in KwaDlangezwa, north of KwaZulu-Natal, police said on Monday. It is alleged the Bachelor of Commerce student, who cannot be named until his family has been informed, was ambushed by unknown gunmen and shot in the head on Saturday night at an off campus residence where some university students stayed. Police spokesperson, Captain Nqobile Gwala, said they were investigating murder charges. “Charges of murder and house robbery are being investigated by Mtunzini [South African Police Service] SAPS,” Gwala said on Monday. “It is alleged on 15 October at approximately 22:30, a 25-year-old man was fatally shot while at Vulindlela area by unknown suspects. A victim’s cellphone was also taken. No arrests made, investigations are continuing.” UniZulu spokesperson, Gcina Nhleko confirmed the death of the student. “The university would like to confirm the passing of our student. He was enrolled at the university and was humble and charismatic. We will confirm details of the cause of death upon confirmation from the police,” Nhleko said.  As a former model, the murdered student was admired on campus for his stylish dress sense. He was also an entrepreneur and founded a small company that helped unsuccessful matriculants to upgrade their Grade 12 marks. His friend Nozipho Shange expressed her grief on the student’s Facebook wall. “Only God knows why it had to happen. Such a promising young man. Just the other day we were making big plans. I don’t have the words to describe my sadness at your passing,” she wrote. Ayanda Ajax Mabaso, a UniZulu student, also poured his heart on the student’s Facebook wall. “It is well with my soul. Family, friends, neighbours, thobisani izinhliziyo, kubuhlungu Khona. This man did not die. He gave his spirit. This is a brave man I ever met. Rest in peace my man, there were so many great things we were still expecting from you.” African News Agency