Cape Town - While universities do not foresee any problems ahead of the 2017 academic year, some matric pupils feel their futures are affected by the #FeesMustFall protests as they attend extra classes on university campuses.Suhail Williams, 18, from Westgate in Mitchells Plain said: I am sad, because what am I going to do? I have a plan and now it s going to be hindered by students and it s not even my fault. Suhail is one of a number of pupils who are tutored at UCT. The university has had to temporarily shut down its academic activity at times due to ongoing protests. I am hoping that they come to an agreement so that we can attend university as planned. It affects my personal study time because I have set time aside, he said.Franecia Plaatjies, 17, from Beacon Valley in Mitchells Plain said: Extra classes are very important. I need to study. I need to do my maths. I have classes at school, but the extra classes we have is to succeed and actually get that 100 percent for maths, so it is very important. All that happened with Fees Must Fall, it really put me down because what will happen to my future? People are careless and do not think about other people. Carlo Bam, 18, from Westgate said: Extra classes help me improve my marks. I was really disappointed when I heard classes were cancelled due to student protests. As matric pupils, we need as much help as we can get. Date changes in terms of extra classes do affect my study time. I take up a schedule and I stick to it. Rescheduling classes knocks up my routine and I am not able to study to the best of my ability. While the pupils are concerned about their readiness for the final exams, universities are confident the protests will not affect their intake for next year The protests do not affect 2017 applicants, spokesman for UWC, Luthando Tyhalibongo said. Applications for last year were at the same level as it is for this year. The deadline for applications was end of September. There were damages at the end of 2015 and first year students were able to be accepted for 2016 despite the protests. At this point in time we are still assessing, but we do not foresee any problems for next year. UCT spokesman, Elijah Moholola said: For the 2017 first year intake, orientation and registration are scheduled for the period February 27 to March 10. Classes will then start on March 13, 2017. As at early this month, we had received 19 950 applications for 2017 admission by the closing date (September 30), compared to 19 122 at the same time last year. CPUT spokeswoman, Lauren Kansley said: We are processing applications off-site. Our intake process is a bit delayed. We ask that people be a bit patient as we work through the backlog. Exams will start shortly in November and December, through the January period. [email&#160;protected]Cape Argus