South African musician Elan Lea has opened up about what it was like working with late musician Robin Gibb of legendary pop group the Bee Gees. Lea spent the last few years in the US, and the UK, working closely with Gibb before the renowned musician died in 2012. The pop singer, who only recently returned to South Africa, released his new single, In The Hands of the Gods, last week. He said he owed a lot to Gibb. “(He) became a mentor to me, he took me under his wing - and even wrote a letter for my application for a US visa,” said Lea. Gibb had even invited Lea to stay at his home during his time in London. “I stayed at his castle’ with him and his family. We wrote and recorded a song together, and it was probably the last time he recorded vocals. “I can’t say for sure but in our song he sang the first verse. “I sang the second verse and we did the chorus together. Sadly, he was rushed to hospital before we finished mixing.” Lea, whose sophomore album, My Only Excuse, was released in 2009, also had the opportunity of writing and producing with Bastille producer Mark Crew. “Mark ; he’s a very good friend. I’ll never forget when we started together, he was the guy in the studio doing the nitty-gritty studio work for the main producers. “Look at him now. It’s awesome to see your friends do so well. We’ve worked on all my music together now for a whole bunch of years.” The Joburg-born singer also shared a stage with hit pop singer Craig David at the Stoke-on-Trent concert in Staffordshire in 2010. “That was a fun show. I was the wild card,” he said. “I thought I’d be the opening act while they cleaned the stadium waiting for people to arrive. Little did I know; I went on mid-show, after Craig David. He’s a cool guy (at least from the three minutes we chatted for). I remember laughing when he said nice abs; It was a great experience. “I just walked on that stage; 20 000 people dead silent after having gone berserk for Craig David. I could hear my footsteps and the band’s footsteps walking behind me. And I just shouted Hello England’. The crowd went up and the rest is whatever it is.” Saturday Star