It may look like a long shot, but the Cape Cobras will have an opportunity to banish their batting woes on the final day of their Sunfoil Series clash against the Knights in Bloemfontein. There’s no doubt that Nicky Bojé’s Knights outfit are in the pound seats after day three at the Mangaung Oval in Bloemfontein as centuries by Pite van Biljon and Rudi Second in the second innings on Thursday rescued the home team from a precarious overnight position of 69/3. The middle-order pair put together a 203-run partnership for the fourth wicket at a good run-rate in less than 50 overs, and they were well on their way to batting the Cobras totally out of the game. But young all-rounder Jason Smith eventually made the breakthrough as he had Knights wicket-keeper Second caught by Zubayr Hamza for an entertaining 106 off just 154 balls (15x4, 2x6), his 11th first-class ton. Then it was the unlikely figure of Cobras captain and opening batsman Omphile Ramela who broke the back of the Knights innings with his left-arm spin. Ramela (4/39) struck a double blow in his third over, getting Van Biljon caught by Stiaan van Zyl for 123 off 182 balls (16x4, 1x6), and three balls later, he bowled former Cobras stalwart Robin Peterson for a duck. Dane Piedt also weighed in with two wickets, and the Knights matched their first-innings score of 342. That meant the Cobras’ winning target was a massive 444, and they made a poor start as Ramela was caught by Shadley van Schalkwyk off the bowling of Marchant de Lange for just nine. The other opener, Matthew Kleinveldt – the cousin of paceman Rory – got stuck into Duanne Olivier, though, hitting him for five boundaries and De Lange for two. Kleinveldt brought up his half-century off just 49 balls (9x4), but just when he looked set for a big score, Van Schalkwyk had him caught by Michael Erlank for 54 off 56 balls. At the other end, classy No 4 batsman Hamza was going about his innings in a confident manner, and he was particularly severe on left-arm seamer Mbulelo Budaza, hitting him for four boundaries in the 15th over. Hamza was joined by elegant left-hander Stiaan van Zyl, who scored 83 in the first innings, and they ensured that the Cobras didn’t lose any further wickets before the close. The 21-year-old Hamza reached his 10th first-class 50 and ended the day on an unbeaten 52 from 64 deliveries (9x4), while Van Zyl was on five as the Cobras went to stumps on 127/2 off 25 overs – a sprightly run-rate of 5.08. After their disastrous efforts against the Highveld Lions last week, the Cobras batsmen owe their coach Paul Adams a serious effort on day four. But to chase down another 317 runs for victory, Adams will hope that Hamza and Van Zyl can occupy the crease for the whole of the first session on Friday at least, and that remaining recognised batsmen Smith, Dane Vilas and Aviwe Mgijima can also make sizable contributions.  ashfak.mohamed@inl.co.za  @ashfakmohamed