Johannesburg - There were mixed emotions among the matriculants who sat for their first final examination paper on Wednesday over the ongoing #FeesMustFall campaign and study camps.Mapaseka Dlamini, 20, from Erasmus Monareng Secondary in Vosloorus, Ekurhuleni, said it was unfair that certain pupils were taken to study camps while others were left behind. I was a bit sad when I wasn't chosen to attend the study camp to prepare for final exams. I know they were taught what we've been taught from the beginning of the year, but I believe that they got new study ideas and benefited from them, she said. However, Tshepo Chokoe, 17, said not going to the study camp had no impact on his exams preparation. When I found out that I wasn't going to attend the study camp, I wasn't demotivated. It motivated me to study even harder, which is why I was not nervous at all about my first paper, he said. Thato Sehong,18, and Nstikelelo Ngewu ,18, from Mondeor High School, south of Joburg, felt that the exam was not as difficult as expected. In fact, it bored them. We thought that it would be tough from what our teachers used to tell us before the exams, said Thato.Despite the number of protests in the name of free tertiary education, both Thato and Ntsikelelo are looking forward to enrolling at a tertiary institution next year. Thato aspires to further her studies at a private aviation academy, preferably in the Eastern Cape. For now, my parents would try to pay for my fees themselves for the 14 month course which could cost up R 800 000. As my plan B, I have applied for a scholarship at the South African Civil Aviation Authority, which I really hope they approve, she said.Ntsikelelo relies on the government s National Student Financial Aid Scheme for funding. She wants to study Optometry at the University of Pretoria. Themba Thabethe from Erasmus Monareng Secondary said the call for free tertiary education will have more negatives than positives because the minimum admission requirements will be higher and it might be difficult for pupils to be accepted. Getting to university is hard, imagine if tertiary education can become free. It means more students won't go to varsity because the (admission) process would be harder. The Gauteng Department of Education has indicated that it had done everything possible to provide the best possible chance for each learner to do well in these exams. @aviweblack @June_Hlongwane1 [email&#160;protected] [email&#160;protected]The Star