BY THERESA SMITH DIRECTOR Mira Nair has been living in Uganda for the past 27 years, ever since she went there to make Mississippi Masala and fell in love with her now husband. She started a family and several gardens and even a film school there “because if we don’t tell our own stories, no one will”. Ironic then, that it was Hollywood in the form of a Disney executive who brought the story of Ugandan chess player, Phiona Mutesi, to her attention. Nair has always gravitated to stories about people considered marginal to society. From Salaam Bombay, all her movies are about how people work to create who they are despite the abject struggle of where they might be: “From the street kids of Bombay to the immigrants who came in The Namesake from Calcutta to New York, to a Muslim man who crosses his road to Wall Street post-9/11 in The Reluctant Fundamentalist. Those are my stories, those are why my heart beats faster,” said Nair in an interview in Joburg last week. In South Africa to attend the South African premiere of Queen of Katwe, Nair described the story of chess-playing Mutesi who uses her mind to step beyond the confines of a Ugandan slum to make a better life for herself as a “chance to capture what it is like to be home there”. “The sassiness, the vibrancy, the red earth and the hysterical green of the flora, Lake Victoria, the people most of all who don’t have self-pity. “They don’t sit around complaining. It’s focusing on what you have, not what you don’t have and that’s a massive lesson for the rest of the world. It’s about time that we show a portrait of how we really live,” said Nair. She has been family friends with Lupita Nyong’o’s family for decades and the younger woman not only attended Nair’s Maisha Film Lab, but she also employed her on the set of The Namesake. Nair knew she wanted to cast Nyong’o in the role of Harriet Mutesi, the chess-playing youngster’s mother, because of the actress’ ability to play a “really formidable, dignified woman of fire with a lot of patience”. “But, it also fantastic that in this moment in time, in Hollywood, we have two bona fide Hollywood stars who are African,” Nair expanded on the casting, also referring to David Oyelowo who plays chess coach, Robert Katende. “When you’re from a place, you know what smells truthful and who can carry the gravitas and the layers of our culture, our etiquette and our courtesies. “You have to carry the tradition, to really know is a very deep thing. I am a slave of truth; authenticity has always been my treasure.“This is what people are feeling in Queen of Katwe. They may never have come to this side of the world, but I think when you are truthful, it becomes universal.” When Disney executive vice-president of production, Tendo Nagenda, first showed her a tiny article from a sports journal about Mutesi, Nair’s interest was sparked and she arranged to meet Phiona and her mother. After a few months of interaction she invited scriptwriter, Bill Wheeler, into the process and while he wrote the script, she, as is always her way, tinkered and added as they filmed. “The fact is life in Katwe, in Uganda as I know it, is never a one-person show. What I loved about Phiona’s tale is that genius is literally everywhere, but it needs a teacher, someone to notice that genius and then to nourish it, it needs more than a teacher, it needs a mother, the community, the street, people who are there for you, who believe in you.“So, that was my emphasis, that everyone  in the film has to be complex or layered in some way,” said Nair. She has always had a fine ear for the rhythms of how people speak which led to some of the dialogue which rings most true in the film: “When Benjamin loses the championship and cries to the coach and says: ‘But me, I was the champion’, the line in the script was originally the coach telling him: ‘Benjamin, be a man, don’t cry’. “We fixed it and the line became, which is exactly how we speak at home: ‘Benjamin, you are too mature for such tears.’”