Johannesburg - The minister in charge of SA’s mining has joined the fray seeking the Public Protector’s office to not publish a report into so-called state capture. The report, which the former protector Thuli Madonsela had finalised before she left office recently, investigates the extent - if any - of the Gupta family’s influence in matters of the state. In a statement issued on Monday, the Department of Mineral Resources says the Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Joseph Zwane has launched an application seeking an urgent order interdicting the publication and release of the Public Protector’s findings and recommendations concerning an investigation into complaints regarding any alleged improper and unethical conduct by the President of the Republic of South Africa and/or any other persons related to an alleged improper relationship with the Gupta family, pending a review application to set aside the report. Read also: ‘Corruption is hurting us’ - ANC Zwane’s office argues he had no option but to now become involved in this matter, as he was not afforded an opportunity to answer allegations levelled against him (contained in a letter he received from the Public Protector) in terms of the Constitution, Public Protector Act and Promotion of Administration of Justice Act. “The Public Protector cannot confirm or deny if the report, which is now alleged to be in final form, makes any adverse findings against the minister. It is the minister’s submission that the report was hastily prepared without due regard to his constitutional rights,” the statement says. This follows President Jacob Zuma’s bid to also have the report quashed, as well as one-time finance minister, Des van Rooyen, who held that post for 4 days last December. His appointment came after Nhlanhla Nene was unceremoniously sacked, but Van Rooyen was later replaced by Pravin Gordhan after an outcry from business and the international investment community. Zuma has declared the report unlawful. Now Cooperative Governance Minister, Van Rooyen has for a second time filed an application for an interdict to prevent the release of former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela’s report on state capture. Zuma’s application is set down to be heard before a full bench (three judges) on Tuesday. It is believed that Judge President Dunstan Mlambo will be one of the judges. IOL