Students' just cause might be lost, due to thuggery, says Nkosinathi Nhleko. Johannesburg - South Africans will be haunted by images of violence, burning libraries and tear gas for a long time to come. As the #FeesMustFall protests gripping the country degenerate, a just cause will sadly evoke horror and disappointment in the public imagination. It is against this backdrop that the ANC is holding its caucus lekgotla at Parliament this weekend. I am certain, when the governing party emerges from its deliberations, there will be an even greater sense of direction in the quest to address the pressing issues facing our nation. Undoubtedly, the impasse in the #FeesMustFall deliberations is of foremost importance for our movement. Ironically, despite the sacrifices being made by disciplined and committed leaders in the South African student movement, those who make headlines as prophets and poets of venom and recklessness will be the best remembered. Very few of us will remember those who have put their heads above the parapet, such as political science graduate Siwaphiwe Myataza, who this week called on students to stop the violence and destruction. Few will get to know, let alone remember, the members of the #TakeWitsBack campaign, the marginal voices of reason who believe education must not be sacrificed, even as the struggle continues. Imprisoned by their myopic grasp of the deep-seated goals and vision of the ANC-led government towards the holistic liberation and development of the poor, the “burn to be heard” brigade believe only its views matter. When these self-styled revolutionaries shout the names of Steve Biko, Solomon Mahlangu, Peter Mokaba, Chris Hani, Lilian Ngoyi and Helen Joseph, among others, they do not realise that they remain our heroes to this day because, against horrifying odds, they fought gallant struggles for and with the people. These leaders well understood that no matter how just a cause might be, once it becomes egocentric and an end in itself, its legitimacy is lost. On the other hand, some of the  #FeesMustFall leaders have become loose cannons and made it their business to make criminality the credo of their supposed liberation narrative. For them, it would seem, it is not just fees that must fall, but all that fundamentally makes South Africa vibrant and functional, despite the socio-economic impediments that strangle the economy and defer our collective dreams as a developmental state. While the reckless ones on our campuses purport to be first and foremost about “decolonised and free higher education” for the poor, they are incapable of historicising the circumstances of inequality and redress in our country. To decolonise education and open the doors of learning and culture has long been a project of the ANC and other progressive forces. Although the pace of transformation in South Africa may need to speed up, petrol bombs and thuggery pose the danger of making the #FeesMustFall campaign a shameful activity. The decolonisation of the South African higher education system also speaks to issues of justice, equity, fairness and the realisation that knowledge and wisdom are not the sole preserves of Europe. Kenyan novelist and intellectual Ngugi wa Thiong’o’s assertion that it’s urgent to have an education system “with Africa at the centre of things, not existing as an appendix or a satellite of other countries and literatures” is apt. South Africa’s transformation trajectory, while not static, is nonetheless not perfect. As the Minister of Higher Education Blade Nzimande said last week during a consultation session with student leaders in Kempton Park, society can learn a great deal from students - thanks to their independence of spirit and mind. He also rightly called for “genuine engagement” on the road to progress. Since the #FeesMustFall campaign became violent, continuing acts of criminality including arson, intimidation and other violations of law are posing a serious threat to people’s safety and security, and have already caused huge financial losses for the country. Such threats to life, limb and property have seen the deployment of members of the South African Police Service on various campuses. Freedom of expression and movement are among the cardinal values of our constitution and for police and students to be at loggerheads on the 40th anniversary of the Soweto student revolt is regrettable. The SAPS’s role in quelling the violent unrest is constitutional in terms of of section 205 of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996 (Act No n108 of 1996). The mandate requires that the SAPS prevents, combats and investigates crime; maintains public order; protects and secures inhabitants of the republic and their property, and upholds and enforces the law. The members of the SAPS are the primary custodians of law and order in our country, and therefore, they simply cannot afford to allow public disorder and mayhem to reign unchecked in our institutions of higher learning. Contrary to what some analysts have said, government has asked the Justice, Crime Prevention and Security Cluster to help restore order not as a form of intimidation or state thuggery but as an act of responsible and human rights-centred law and order leadership. As acting national police commissioner Lieutenant-General Khomotso Phahlane said on Tuesday, it is untrue that the police are baying for blood and are out to use maximum force against students. The call for maximum restraint and discipline informs the deployment of SAPS on our university campuses. It seeks to avoid the criminality of an otherwise legitimate call by students a country where negotiations and tolerance are the pivots of our social compact. * Nhleko is the Minister of Police and a Member of Parliament. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. The Sunday Independent