Johannesburg - DJ Euphonik, together with DJ Fresh, is part of the popular F.Eu and one of South Africa’s best-known personalities. Here he chats to Helen Herimbi about his most memorable travel experiences.  First holiday memory? I remember driving to my grandmother’s place in Mpumalanga with my parents.  Favourite place in South Africa? It would definitely have to be Joburg!  Best holiday spot? I just love Durban.  What have you learnt from your travels? I have learnt that the world is a far bigger place than I thought, and with seven billion people in it you’re insignificant in the bigger scheme of things. There is just so much out there that I still want to experience.  Ideal travelling companion? Either a good friend or my girlfriend.  Beach bum, culture vulture or adrenalin junkie? I think I am right on that line between being an adrenalin junkie and culture vulture.  Greatest travel luxury? It has to be dining. I love tasting different cuisines from around the world.  Holiday reading? I don’t read actual books much. When I am on holiday, I am most likely listening to audiobooks. I especially love audiobooks that focus on (business) strategy.  What place in the world has seduced you? I’d have to say Asia. From the culture to the landscape, the food and the people - I love everything about it.  Worst travel experience? One time, I was in Miami and missed my flight back home. So I had to spend 48 hours on the road. Not fun.  Best hotel? I have to say the Radisson Blu Hotels worldwide are the best.  Favourite walk, swim, ride or drive? I love driving when I am travelling in a different part of the world.  Best meal abroad? When I was in Spain, I treated myself to the best seafood buffet I have ever had.  Favourite city? Without a doubt, my favourite city in the whole world is Miami.  Where to next? I am continuing with my first African Tour that kicked off in Kenya and I am stoked! I will also be performing in Botswana, Namibia and Mozambique this month and fans can expect a special EP to be released after the tour. Another one on my to-do list is a Contiki tour of Europe sometime in the future. Independent Traveller l DJ Euphonik, together with DJ Fresh, is part of the popular F.Eu and one of South Africa’s best-known personalities. In addition to hosting a show on 5FM, Euphonik has several singles dominating the airwaves. He frequently trends on Twitter and is currently on his African Tour, during which he will perform in Kenya, Botswana and Mozambique. He plans to record songs with some of the biggest artists in the cities he visits for a special edition EP that will be released at the end of the tour.  Follow him on social media.