Cape Town - When you hear Halloween, you imagine a scene out of an American spine-chilling movie with jack-ó-lanterns, scary costumes or children going out for trick or treat. If you are planning to do something spine-chilling this Halloween, we got your back.  1. Annual Horror Fest Cape Town You can be sure to expect nail-biting, horrific slasher movies, documentaries and a classics film fest that promises to escalate your chill factor to a notch higher. The festival starts October 26 to November 4, 2016 and its set up is at the Labia Theatre on Orange Street. Visit: www.horrorfest.info  A photo posted by M a n d i e S w a r t🌱 (@mandie_cycling) on Oct 21, 2016 at 11:05am PDT   2. Halloween Celebrations at Ushaka Durban It’s going to be a ghoulish affair at Ushaka World, where families and friends can participate in a hellish trick or treat bonanza. The spooky event will be led by colourful Halloween characters through a spider and bat infested maze, to the wreck aquarium at the Phantom ship for R120 per person. www.ushakamarineworld.co.za/events/1614-halloween-at-ushaka  A photo posted by Jimi Smith (@theotherjimi) on Nov 1, 2015 at 6:26am PST   3. Mystery Ghost bus tour Cape Town and Durban Book a seat onboard the Mystery tour bus that takes tourists to a haunted local pub for dinner and drinks. After dinner and drinks, you will board the bus for a five-hour tour, where you will see haunted houses, enter dark eerie rooms and hear EVP sound effects, ending mid-night at the bus’s made-up cemetery. A seat on the ghoulish bus costs R349 per person and can be taken at the Dragon Room and Durban beach front. www.mysteryghostbus.co.za/  A photo posted by Andrea Küsel (@andrea_kusel) on Jul 27, 2016 at 9:17am PDT   4. Jackal Creek Golf Club Halloween Johannesburg Take the family for an afternoon of trick or treat along with a haunted trail that promises to keep your senses tingling. It costs R30 per person and can be enjoyed after a game of golf. There is entertainment for the whole family, with creepy crawly reptiles and insects from the Mobile Zoo, food stalls, also you can walk the ramp and be a part of the best dressed competition. www.webtickets.co.za/events/sport/halloween-2016/1465308772  5. Ripley’s believe it or not! Cape Town See chilling artefacts and learn about the weird and scary lengths people have gone to and are willing to go to. This year’s Halloween theme promises to scare your shoes off and it’s only R150 per adult, R120 for seniors and children 16 years and under. www.waterfront.co.za/events/Family/ripleys-believe-it-or-not-summer-attraction  A photo posted by Ripley's Believe It Or Not! Va (@ripleysbelieveitornotva) on Jun 26, 2015 at 12:47pm PDT  IOL