Before the end of this year, we will either have lost our country or won it back, writes Imraan Buccus.Johannesburg - We are in serious trouble. The Guptas and various other predatory state actors have captured a democratic state and turned it into a vehicle for private accumulation.The latest revelations about the movement of billions of rand of unexplained funds through the Guptas&#x2019; accounts are staggering.The one cabinet member to take a firm stand against this wholesale theft is Pravin Gordhan. Gordhan is now under serious pressure. If he is removed from office we will collapse into junk status and the Treasury will be looted in the same way that SAA, Eskom, the SABC and many government departments and local municipalities have been looted.The stakes are very, very high. The Guptas have employed the notorious public relations firm Bell Pottinger. On October 2, it was revealed the Pentagon paid Bell Pottinger $540 million to create fake terrorist videos and articles for Arab television news channels. Justice Malala has suggested the proliferation of fake news websites and the well-funded new vehicles for Andile Mngxitama and Jimmy Manyi are part of this operation.But more and more senior figures in the ANC, including Zweli Mkhize and Cyril Ramaphosa, are coming out against looting and poor governance. Important figures in civil society have come out against Zuma. Our future will be decided in the coming days and weeks. If the looters prevail, the state will turn into a vacuum cleaner, pumping money into private wealth in Dubai. If they lose, we can start the business of rebuilding.Questions have also been raised about where the student movement will turn. It has no coherent organisation and there are multiple factions. But the ANC is a powerful force on some campuses. Some have suggested this is why the students have often ignored the state and focused their struggle on university managers. This column has previously noted managers are responsible for the failure to transform some campuses and how they handle protest. But they are not responsible for funding models. It is the government that has failed to invest in university education.There is a danger that the demonisation of politically independent vice-chancellors could lead to them being replaced by Zuma loyalists. The idea of a university run like the ANC is too ghastly to contemplate. There is also the danger that a sustained assault on universities, instead of the state, could do serious damage to these vital institutions, with the result better-off families will choose private and overseas alternatives.This will leave students from poor and working-class families in dysfunctional and underfunded institutions. It will also mean that better-off students get a Western and corporate-style education.A disturbing element of the student movement&#x2019;s general failure to confront the state has been the emergence of an anti-Gordhan narrative. Although his use of the phrase &#x201C;ultra-left&#x201D; is unfortunate, academic Ivor Chipkin is correct to argue that directing student anger against Gordhan and the Treasury could play into the hands of Zuma, the Guptas and the Bell Pottinger PR strategy. If this happens, a movement fighting for a progressive goal - access to education - will have been captured by a dangerously predatory faction in the ANC.This is the time for religious leaders, civil society formations, trade unions, grassroots organisations and intellectuals to take a clear stand. It is time for all ANC members who remain committed to progressive values to take a stand. Activists in the student movement also need to take a stand.We cannot be caught napping when the future of our country is at stake.This is the greatest danger our country has faced since the assassination of Chris Hani in 1993. Heroes such as Thuli Madonsela and Father Graham Pugin have shown us it&#x2019;s possible to stand up and do the right thing. Veteran activists have stood up to say enough is enough. All the major political parties and many leading members of the ANC are standing up.Before the end of this year, we will either have lost our country or won it back. If we win it back, we&#x2019;ll still have many problems to deal with, such as the education crisis, land question, mass unemployment and the housing crisis. But, with a democratic framework and a viable state, we&#x2019;ll be able to begin the long struggle to build a decent society.We have been through many dangerous periods in the past and we have always made it through. We have the courage of youth and the wisdom of experience on our side. Our greatest asset in finding a way through this crisis will be the ability to construct the widest possible alliances. We need a united front against the forces of predation. Buccus is senior research associate at ASRI, research fellow in the School of Social Sciences at UKZN and academic director of a university study abroad programme on political transformation. The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.The Sunday Independent