Ajax Cape Town piled on the pressure after conceding a third-minute goal, but couldn’t break down the SuperSport United defence to go down 2-0 on Saturday night. New Zealand striker Jeremy Brockie stepped up to convert a penalty for SuperSport, and veteran Reneilwe Letsholonyane grabbed a second in stoppage time to hand the Pretoria side all three Premiership points at Cape Town Stadium. Ajax captain Mosa Lebusa was flagged for a handball as he slid across the ground in trying to hack away Thabo Mnyamane’s cross from the right in the second minute. It was an unfortunate situation for Lebusa, but referee Phillip Tinyani was correct to point to the spot. But the Urban Warriors recovered well from the early setback and were much more sprightly in attack under the watch of caretaker coach Mich D’Avray, following the midweek resignation of Roger de Sa. Newly appointed boss, former Dutch goalkeeper Stanley Menzo, wasn’t in charge for this game and watched intently from the stands with notebook in hand. Menzo would’ve been impressed by the energy and creativity shown by Ajax going forward, but the age-old problem of finishing once again saw the home side lose all three points as a number of chances ended up either going wide or over the crossbar. The likes of left wing Bantu Mzwakali and midfielder Erwin Isaacs proved to be a troublesome duo for SuperSport, while the likes of Tashreeq Morris, Erick Chipeta, Roscoe Pietersen and Prince Nxumalo all had opportunities on goal that they were unable to take. The best chance of the opening 45 minutes fell to Isaacs, who let rip with a screamer from the edge of the box following a perfectly-weighted pass by Mzwakali from the left. It looked like it was going all the way into the top corner, but SuperSport goalkeeper Ronwen Williams pulled off an astonishing save to tip it over the top. Williams, who was recalled to the Bafana squad this week, gave a little fist-pump once he got up to show his satisfaction with his effort. Just after halftime, Mzwakali was again involved, showing great skill to beat a defender and cut the ball back for Morris inside the box, but the bustling striker was already beyond the ball and tried a back-heeled volley that went over the top. SuperSport didn’t sit back on their lead, though, and could’ve had two more goals in three minutes as Brockie hit the upright with a volley, while Bradley Grobler hesitated when he was clear in space inside the box, and his shot was blocked. Ajax kept trying, but it just wasn’t their night, and their fate was sealed when possession was lost near the halfway line and Letsholonyane broke clear and eventually beat February in the first minute of stoppage time. Menzo’s main task will be to work on his team’s shooting, as there are only a few days before another tough outing against Free State Stars at Goble Park in Bethlehem on Wednesday (6pm kickoff). In the other Premiership games on Saturday, Orlando Pirates and Kaizer Chiefs drew 0-0 at the FNB Stadium, while Wits pulled off an impressive 2-1 away win over Bloemfontein Celtic.  ashfak.mohamed@inl.co.za  @ashfakmohamed