Johannesburg - It's gloves off when sevens rugby player Werner Kok takes on mixed martial arts fighter Garreth 'Soldierboy' McLellan in a fight for top honours on Speed Stars this week. And if you can predict the victor you can win an advanced driving course with Opel and Michelin. Werner Kok burst onto the international rugby stage in 2013 when he made his debut for the SA Sevens side, the Blitzbokke, at the final event of the IRB Sevens World Series in London. In just three years he and the team have won the World Games in 2013, the Commonwealth Games in 2014 and bronze at the 2016 Rio Olympics. Kok was named World Rugby Sevens Player of the Year in 2015; not only is he devastating on attack but was also the leading tackler in the series. He is fast and fearless, attributes required to be fast on the racetrack, but which also best describe his sparring partner in this episode. Garreth McLellan was on track for a career as a professional rugby player when a conditioning coach at the Sharks Academy introduced him to mixed martial arts. As a national champion in karate and grappling, Garreth's training made him a natural for MMA and after his professional debut in 2009 he was twice crowned EFC Africa Champion and EFC Worldwide Champion, before joining the Ultimate Fighting Championships at the end of 2014. With a professional record of 13 victories to five losses, McLellan is looking to make it 14 wins when he meets Kok on the racetrack. To enter the advanced driving course contest: SMS the word MOTOR [space] your prediction (either KOK or SOLDIERBOY) followed by your name, email address and province you live in to 45607. SMS cost R1.50. The advanced driving course prize will be held at the Gerotek test facility in Gauteng toward the end of November (dates have not yet been finalised), but the contest is open to anyone in the country. Flight costs will be covered for out of town winners, but you'll need to make your way to either King Shaka airport in Durban or Cape Town International on your own steam. The Kok versus McLellan episode will air this Saturday night at 7.30pm on DStv channel 189, and SMS entries close at the start of the show. Terms and conditions apply, and prizes are not exchangeable for cash value. Star Motoring  