 Durban - An acting Durban magistrate was found with this throat and wrist slit in a toilet cubicle of a Durban CBD building on Tuesday night. The family of Loganathan Perumal, 49, reported him missing on Tuesday, to Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa), a private security company, in Verulam where he lives. According to colleagues, Perumal had not reported to work and his family raised the alert when he failed to return home. Both his phones had been switched off and he had made no contact since the morning. Prem Balram, spokesman for Rusa, said police had not been able to open a missing person report because they were obliged to wait 48 hours before opening a case. A source said Perumal’s family went to the building, where he practised as an attorney, and viewed CCTV footage. The source said Perumal was seen entering his 12th floor office corridor in the morning. Later on Tuesday he was seen leaving the corridor and entering a stairwell that has access to communal toilets on the 11th floor. The source said Perumal did not exit the toilets and after the footage was viewed again, they decided to check the toilets. Security guards found his body slumped in a cubicle at 1am. It is alleged that a razor blade was found near his body. Police spokeswoman, Colonel Thembeka Mbhele, confirmed the body was that of Perumal. “The deceased had wounds on the wrist and throat. Durban Central police are investigating an inquest and circumstances around the incident,” Mbhele said. Perumal rented an office in the building with a colleague. He recently returned to the building and shared the same office. Attempts to get hold of his colleague this morning were unsuccessful. The offices were locked because of the police investigation and guards in the building did not allow anyone near it. On Facebook Shireen Siva Subramonian said the news came as a shock to her. “He travels with us daily. On Tuesday we dropped him off at his normal spot. Yesterday (Tuesday) afternoon he was not waiting at the spot. His phones were switched off so we waited a while and then left. We thought he finished work early. He was such a humble man,” she said. The National Prosecuting Authority and the KwaZulu-Natal Law Society had not commented at the time of publication. Attempts to get hold of the family were unsuccessful. Daily News