Chris Brown is unlikely to be charged with assault with a deadly weapon. The 'Beautiful People' hitmaker was accused by beauty queen Baylee Curran of pulling a gun on her during a row over jewellery at his home in August, and though he was arrested and booked over the alleged incident, the Los Angeles' District Attorney's office are said to feel there is not enough evidence to move forward with the case. The case was supposed to be submitted to prosecutors two weeks ago, but authorities got a two-week extension in order to gather more evidence. Sources told TMZ the DA are unconvinced by the claims made by Baylee, who gave a number of interviews following the alleged incident. And though Chris threw a duffel bag containing two guns out of his window during a stand-off with police, authorities are said to be worried they can't definitively link the weapons to the 27-year-old singer. If Chris isn't charged with assault with a deadly weapon, police could seek prosecution for misdeanour assault, but that is also likely to prove unsuccessful. Two weeks ago, officials from Los Angeles' Department of Children and Family Services (DCFS) went to speak to the singer, with insiders believing an investigation from child protective services had been opened following a complaint from Nia Guzman, the mother of the 'Yeah 3x' hitmaker's two-year-old daughter Royalty, in connection with the alleged gun incident. The DCFS representatives were accompanied by police officers on their visit to Chris' house, but the singer reportedly refused to speak with the investigators or even let them enter his security gate. The 'Fine China' star has previously maintained "the truth" about Baylee's allegations against him will come out eventually. He said recently: "I cannot wait till the truth comes to light about this incident and this situation. You know, because my character's been defaced and who I am as a person and [my] integrity. "I'm glad all my real supporters know me, and know the truth and see the truth."  Bang Showbiz